'''Saeed Abdallah Ali Sulayman al-Ghamdi''' (September 11, 2001) was one of four hijackers of United Airlines Flight 93 as part of the September 11 attacks. 
Born in Saudi Arabia, Ghamdi left his home to fight in Chechnya after dropping out of college, but was reported to have diverted to Afghanistan to train in an al-Qaeda camp. It was reported he was chosen by Osama bin Laden to participate in terrorist attacks in the United States and arrived in the U.S. in June 2001. During his stay in the U.S., he quietly settled in Florida, planning out how the attacks would commence and training on flight simulators.
On September 11, 2001, it was reported he boarded United 93 and assisted in the hijacking of the plane, which was crashed into a field in the control of hijacker-pilot Ziad Jarrah in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after the passengers attempted to retake control of the plane in an uprising.
Ghamdi was from the al Bahah province of Saudi Arabia, and shared the same tribal affiliation with fellow hijackers Ahmed al-Ghamdi, Hamza al-Ghamdi, and Ahmed al-Haznawi, although he was not related to either Ghamdi. He may have been in contact with the two Ghamdis and Haznawi as early as 1999. p. 231 This group is noted as being some of the more religiously observant of the hijackers. Ghamdi spent time in al Qasim province, Saudi Arabia where he transferred to college but soon dropped out and ceased contact with his family. While there he probably associated with the radical Saudi cleric named Sulayman al-Alwan as several other future hijackers had. p. 233
Saeed later headed to Chechnya to participate in the conflict against the Russians. At this time, Chechen fighters were turning away additional foreigners, many of whom ended up in al-Qaeda camps in Afghanistan to train and await entry to Chechnya. Saeed ended up at the Al Farouq training camp, where he met Ahmed al-Nami, and the brothers Wail al-Shehri|Wail and Waleed al-Shehri. The four reportedly pledge themselves to Jihad in the Spring of 2000, in a ceremony presided over by Wail-who had dubbed himself ''Abu Mossaeb al-Janubi'' after one of Muhammad's companions., Boston Globe, Charles M. Sennott, Globe Staff, 3/3/2002
Saeed was known to Tawfiq bin Attash who is thought to have convinced him to become a martyr. Saeed was at that time working as a security guard at Kandahar airport along with Waleed al-Shehri.
Some time late in 2000, Saeed traveled to the United Arab Emirates, where he purchased traveler's cheques presumed to have been paid for by Mustafa al-Hawsawi. Five other hijackers also passed through the UAE and purchased travellers cheques, including Majed Moqed, Wail al-Shehri, Hamza al-Ghamdi, Ahmed al-Haznawi and Ahmed al-Nami.
On November 13, 2000, another Saeed al-Ghamdi Saeed Abdullah al-Ghamdi tried to obtain a visa to enter the United States, but was declined. Although the 9/11 Commission makes mention of him, there is no evidence he was associated with the hijackers.
In March 2001, Saeed was filmed in a farewell video that was later aired on al-Jazeera. In the video, many future 9/11 hijackers swear to become martyrs, although no details of the plot are revealed. Saeed referred to America as "the enemy", and is seen studying maps and flight manuals.
On June 12, 2001 Saeed al-Ghamdi applied for and received a second two-year US B-1/B-2 Visa|B-1/B-2 (tourist/business) visa in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. His application was submitted by a local travel agency and processed through Visa Express, a controversial US visa program in Saudi Arabia which was discontinued the following year.
Arriving in the U.S. on June 27, 2001 with Fayez Banihammad, Saeed shared an apartment with Ahmed al-Nami in Delray Beach, Florida. Oddly, he listed the Naval Air Station in Pensacola, Florida as his permanent address on his driver's license. He was one of 9 hijackers to open a SunTrust bank account with a cash deposit around June 2001. Saeed occasionally trained on simulators at the FlightSafety Aviation School in Vero Beach, Florida together with Mohand al-Shehri and Abdulaziz al-Omari.
According to al-Jazeera reporter Yosri Fouda's documentary ''Top Secret: The Road to September 11'', three weeks prior to the attacks Saeed is believed to have used the name 'Abdul Rahman' to send a message to Ramzi bin al-Shibh (who was posing as a girlfriend) online, in which he wrote 
On September 7, all four of Flight 93 hijackers flew from Fort Lauderdale to Newark International Airport aboard Spirit Airlines.
Image:Saeed al-GhamdiPass Visa.jpg|thumb| Visa page from Saeed al-Ghamdi's Kingdom of Saudi Arabia passport recovered from the United Airlines Flight 93 crash site
On the morning of September 11, 2001, Ghamdi boarded United Airlines Flight 93 without incident. Due to the flight's delay, the pilot and crew were notified of the previous hijackings that day, and were told to be on the alert. Within minutes, Flight 93 was hijacked as well.
At least two of the cell phone calls made by passengers indicate that all the hijackers they saw were wearing red bandanas. The calls also indicated that one of the men had tied a box around his torso, and claimed there was a bomb inside; it is not known which hijacker this was.
According to the s:Flight 93 Cockpit Transcript|cockpit transcript released later, it appeared Saeed may have been at the controls of the flight when it crashed, although the 9/11 commission asserts that Ziad Jarrah was the pilot.
Passengers on the plane heard through phone calls the fates of the other hijacked planes. A failed passenger uprising resulted in the plane crashing into a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, killing everyone aboard.
On September 23, 2001, before the FBI had released the pictures of the hijackers, the BBC and The Daily Telegraph  reported that a Saudi Airlines pilot named Saeed al-Ghamdi was furious that a name on the hijacker's list released by the FBI matched his own. CNN also showed a picture of the "living" Ghamdi as the hijacker. The man claimed CNN likely got his picture from a Flight Safety flying school in Florida he attended., BBC News, Sunday, 23 September 2001, 12:30 GMT 13:30 UK, The Daily Telegraph, By David Harrison,(Filed: 23/09/2001) Der Spiegel later investigated the claims of "living" hijackers by the BBC and discovered them to be cases of mistaken identity., Spiegel Online, September 8, 2003 
According to immigration records in the Philippines, someone named Saeed al-Ghamdi visited that country on at least 15 occasions in 2001, entering as a tourist. The last visit ended on August 6. This may have been a different person with the same name, as no other information is available. 
In June 2005 the Saudi government released a list (see al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula) of 36 wanted (and alive) terrorists, one of whom was Salih Sa'id Al Batih al-Ghamdi. 9/11 conspiracy theories|9/11 conspiracy theorists quickly confused him with the hijacker Saeed al-Ghamdi., Asharq Al-Awsat, 29/06/2005
He has been portrayed by Iraqi actor Lewis Alsamari in United 93 and Shawn Ahmed in  Flight 93.
Image:Saeeds-I94Form.jpg|Saeed's I-94 (form)|I-94 form
Image:Saeed-Customs-Declaration.jpg|Saeed's Customs declaration
File:Alghamdivisaphoto.jpg| Ghamdi's passport photo.
* PENTTBOM
*
* 
'''Ahmed Ibrahim al-Haznawi''' () (October 11, 1980 – September 11, 2001) was one of four hijackers of United Airlines Flight 93 as part of the September 11 attacks.
He left his family to fight in Chechnya in 2000 but was probably sent to training camps in Afghanistan. It was there he was chosen to participate in the 9/11 attacks. He arrived in the United States in June 2001 under the direction of Al-Qaeda for terrorist attacks, on a tourist visa. Once he was in the U.S., he settled in Florida and helped plan out how the attacks would take place.
On September 11, 2001, Haznawi boarded United Airlines Flight 93 and assisted in the hijacking of the plane, which crashed into a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after a passenger uprising.
Ahmed al-Haznawi was the son of a Saudi imam from the Al-Bahah province,  a province in the south west of Saudi Arabia. It is the capital of Al Bahah Province nestled between the resorts of Mecca and Abha, Al Bahah is one of the Kingdom's prime tourist attractions. Haznawi grew up in the village of Hazna, where his father was a cleric at the mosque in the central marketplace section of the village.  Haznawi belonged to a family that was part of the larger, al-Ghamdi tribe, sharing the same tribal affiliation with fellow hijackers Saeed al-Ghamdi, Hamza al-Ghamdi, and Ahmed al-Ghamdi. He memorised the Quran, giving him the title Hafiz (Qur'an)|Hafiz.Bell, Stewart. "The Martyr's Oath", 2005.
This group is noted as being some of the more religiously observant of the hijackers, and they are thought to have met one another some time in 1999.
Alghamdi announced he was leaving his family in 1999 to fight in Chechnya, although his father forbade him. His father and brother, Abdul Rahman al-Haznawi, reportedly last heard from him in late 2000, after he made references to training in Afghanistan.
On November 12, 2000, Haznawi applied for and received a two-year U.S. B-1/B-2 Visa|B-1/B-2
(tourist/business) visa in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
From November 27, 2000 through December 27, 2000, Haznawi was in Saudi Arabia for Ramadan.  It is theorized that during this trip, he may have initially told Saeed al-Ghamdi|Saeed and Hamza al-Ghamdi about the operation.
Some time late in 2000, Haznawi traveled to the United Arab Emirates, where he purchased traveler's cheques presumed to have been paid for by Mustafa al-Hawsawi.  Five other hijackers also passed through the UAE and purchased travellers cheques, including Majed Moqed, Saeed al-Ghamdi, Hamza al-Ghamdi, Wail al-Shehri and Ahmed al-Nami.
 video, pledging to give his life to martyrdom
He was one of four hijackers  believed to be staying at a Kandahar guest house in March 2001, where they were seen by Mohammed Jabarah. Jabarah remembered Haznawi specifically, saying that he was "very devout and could recite the entire Koran from memory."Ressa, Maria. "Seeds of Terror" (2003). p. 165
On June 8 he arrived in Miami, Florida with fellow hijacker Wail al-Shehri.  He was one of 9 hijackers to open a SunTrust bank account with a cash deposit around June 2001.  He is believed to have moved in with Ziad Jarrah, who got a new apartment on Bougainvilla Dr. in Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, after both men gave the landlord photocopies of their German passports, which he later turned over to the FBI.
On June 25, Jarrah took Haznawi to Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale on advice of his landlord Charles Lisa.  Haznawi was treated by Dr. Christos Tsonas, who gave him antibiotics for a small gash on his left calf.  While he told staff that he had bumped into a suitcase, Washington Post, March 29, 2002 the media briefly reported it as a sign of cutaneous anthrax and a possible link to the 2001 anthrax attacks, although FBI later addressed the rumors stating that "Exhaustive testing did not support that anthrax was present anywhere the hijackers had been."
On July 10 Haznawi obtained a Florida driver's license, later obtaining another copy on September 7, 2001 by filling out a change-of-address form. Five other hijackers also received duplicate Florida licenses in 2001, and others had licenses from different states. Some have speculated that this was to allow multiple persons to use the same identity.
Jarrah and Haznawi both received their one-way tickets for United Airlines Flight 93, on September 5. On September 7, all four Flight 93 hijackers flew from Fort Lauderdale to Newark International Airport aboard Spirit Airlines.
On September 11, 2001, Haznawi arrived at Newark International Airport to board Flight 93.  Although he was selected for additional security by CAPPS and screened, he was able to board the flight without incident, with only his checked bags requiring extra screening for explosives.
Due to the flight's delay, the pilot and crew were notified of the previous hijackings that day and were told to be on the alert.  Within minutes, Flight 93 was hijacked as well.
At least two of the cellphone calls made by passengers indicate that all the hijackers they saw were wearing red bandanas, which some believe may have signified an allegiance to the Egyptian Islamic Jihad.  The calls also indicated that one of the men had tied a box around his torso, and claimed there was a bomb inside - it is not known which hijacker this was.  Some passengers expressed doubt that the bomb was real.
Passengers on the plane heard through phone calls the fates of the other hijacked planes. A passenger uprising soon took place. Hijacker-pilot, Ziad Jarrah, crashed the plane into an empty field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania in order to prevent the passengers from gaining control of the plane. The crash killed everyone on board.
After the attacks, before the release of the FBI pictures of the hijackers, Arab News reported that Haznawi's brother Abdul Rahman had told al-Madinah newspaper that a photograph published by local newspapers bore no resemblance to his brother. Arab News, October 1, 2001
A videotape titled "The Wills of the New York and Washington Battle Martyrs" was aired on Al Jazeera on April 16, 2002. While the name beneath the speaker read ''al-Ghamdi'', the image is of Haznawi speaking. Officials suggested that the name was merely a reference to his tribal affiliation.  The film was thought to have been made in March 2001.  In it, he talked about his plans to bring the "bloodied message" to America.  In September 2002, a similar tape made by Abdulaziz al-Omari appeared.
He has been portrayed by actors Omar Berdouni in ''United 93'', and Zak Santiago in ''Flight 93''.
*PENTTBOM
* 
* 
'''Wail Mohammed al-Shehri''' ( - September 11, 2001) was one of five hijackers of American Airlines Flight 11, which was hijacked and flown into the North Tower of the World Trade Center (1973-2001)|World Trade Center as part of the September 11 attacks.
Shehri was an elementary school teacher from Khamis Mushait in the 'Asir|Asir region of Saudi Arabia. In early 2000 he traveled to Medina to seek treatment for mental problems. He and his younger brother Waleed al-Shehri|Waleed traveled to Afghanistan in March 2000 and joined an Afghan training camp|Al-Qaeda training camp. The brothers were chosen, along with others from the same region of Saudi Arabia, to participate in the September 11 attacks. Once selected, Shehri returned to Saudi Arabia in October 2000 to obtain a clean passport, then returned to Afghanistan. In March 2001, he recorded his last will and testament on video.
Shehri arrived in the United States in early June 2001, staying in budget motels in the Boynton Beach, Florida|Boynton Beach area of south Florida. On September 5, 2001, Shehri traveled to Boston and checked into a motel with his brother. Six days later, Shehri arrived early in the morning at Boston's Logan International Airport and boarded American Airlines Flight 11. Fifteen minutes after take off, the flight was hijacked and deliberately crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center at 8:46 a.m.
In the aftermath of the attacks, some news reports mistakenly reported Shehri as a trained pilot and son of a Saudi diplomat, who was still alive and well. The Shehri family in Khamis Mushait spoke to the media, denying those early reports, saying that the Shehri brothers had disappeared and have not been heard from since.
Image:Abha, Saudi Arabia locator map.png|thumb|right|Abha is the capital of Saudi Arabia's 'Asir|Asir province, where Wail al-Shehri was from, and Wail graduated from Abha's teacher college.
Wail al-Shehri and his younger brother Waleed were from Khamis Mushait in the 'Asir|Asir province, which is an impoverished area in southwestern Saudi Arabia, along the Yemeni border.
During high school and college, Shehri was deeply religious and attended Al-Seqley Mosque, which his family had built as the local mosque. Shehri also frequented government-supported religious camps in Saudi Arabia. At this time, there were strong religious feelings in Saudi Arabia, especially in the Asir region. Many young people in the region idolized Osama bin Laden, who had family ties to the area. Wail's father was a friend of Bin Laden's father, Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden. Ahmed al-Nami and Saeed al-Ghamdi, who were both hijackers on United Airlines Flight 93, came from the same area in Saudi Arabia as the Shehri family.
After graduating from Abha teachers college in 1999, Wail al-Shehri took a job as an elementary school physical education teacher at the Khamis Mushait airbase. Five months into the job, Shehri took leave due to mental illness and depression. Rather than conventional therapy, Wail sought consultation with Muslim clerics, and hoped that a visit to Medina would help. His treatment involved verses from the Qur'an read to him by a sheikh. He traveled to Medina together with Waleed. After the September 11 attacks, others recalled seeing the Shehri brothers in Medina.
Wail and Waleed al-Shehri disappeared after going to Medina, calling their father just once; in the conversation, the brothers were vague about when they would return. Both had expressed interest in joining the jihad in Chechnya, though may have been diverted to Afghanistan. Before disappearing, the Shehri brothers went to Al-Seqley Mosque to swear an oath and commitment to jihad, as did Ahmed al-Nami and Saeed al-Ghamdi. Wail presided over the ceremony, dubbing himself ''Abu Mossaeb al-Janubi'' after one of Muhammad's companions.
In March 2000, he left for Pakistan with Waleed and Ahmed al-Nami; later, they went on to Afghanistan. Wail al-Shehri followed the standard path for new al-Qaeda recruits in Afghanistan, spending time in the Khalden training camp and then Al Farouq training camp near Kandahar. Details on how the non-pilot ("Hijackers in the September 11 attacks#Muscle hijackers|muscle") hijackers were chosen for the September 11 attacks are vague, though the hijackers appear to have been selected by senior al-Qaeda leaders in 2000 from the thousands of recruits at training camps in Afghanistan. The most capable and motivated volunteers were at al-Farouq, and Saudi citizens were good candidates, since it would be easy for them to obtain visas to travel to the United States. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) director George Tenet later said that the muscle hijackers were probably told little about their mission in the United States.
Once Wail and the other muscle hijackers completed their training in Afghanistan, they received $2,000 so they could return to Saudi Arabia to obtain new passports and visas. The Shehri brothers may have been assisted by a relative who worked in the Saudi passport office.
In late 2000, Wail traveled to the United Arab Emirates, where he purchased traveler's checks, presumed to have been paid for by Mustafa al-Hawsawi|Mustafa Ahmed al-Hawsawi. Five other hijackers passed through the United Arab Emirates and purchased traveler's checks, including Majed Moqed, Saeed al-Ghamdi, Hamza al-Ghamdi, Ahmed al-Haznawi and Ahmed al-Nami. The 9/11 Commission believes that three of the future muscle hijackers, including Wail and Waleed, traveled in a group from Saudi Arabia to Beirut and then onward to Iran where they could travel through to Afghanistan without getting their passports stamped. An associate of a senior Hezbollah operative is thought to have been on the same flight, although this may have been a coincidence.
Wail al-Shehri appeared together with hijackers Ahmed al-Nami, Hamza al-Ghamdi, and Ahmed al-Ghamdi on a video recorded in March 2001, and aired on Al Jazeera in September 2002. Shehri was seen studying maps and flight manuals, but he did not speak in the video; it also included a segment of Abdulaziz al-Omari reading his last will and testament.
On June 5, 2001, Wail obtained an International Driving Permit, which was issued in Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates.
Shehri moved into the Homing Inn, a budget motel in Boynton Beach, Florida|Boynton Beach, on June 21, 2001, sharing a room with his brother Waleed, and Satam al-Suqami.
On August 28, 2001, Wail and Waleed al-Shehri made reservations on American Airlines Flight 11, using the Mail Boxes Etc. in Hollywood, Florida as their address. The Shehri brothers contacted American Airlines on September 3 by telephone to change their first-class seat assignments for American Airlines Flight 11, selecting seats on the side of the aircraft that offered a direct view of the cockpit. Wail and Waleed al-Shehri left Florida for Boston on September 5, traveling together on Delta Air Lines Flight 2462.
Wail checked in together with Waleed at the Park Inn Hotel in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts on September 5, 2001, staying in room 432.
Wail al-Shehri, his brother Waleed, and Satam al-Suqami arrived together at Logan Airport at 06:45 on the morning of September 11, 2001.
By 07:40, all five hijackers were aboard the flight, which was scheduled to depart at 07:45. Wail and Waleed al-Shehri sat together in first class in seats 2A and 2B respectively. The aircraft taxied away from Gate 26, and departed Logan International Airport at 07:59, following a 14-minute delay.
Waleed al-Shehri was reported to have been found alive by a BBC News article on September 23, 2001,
Jamal Khashoggi, of Al-Watan (Saudi Arabia)|Al-Watan and ArabNews in Saudi Arabia, spoke with Muhammad Ali al-Shehri in Khamis Mushait, who said his sons Wail and Waleed had been missing for months. Wail al-Shehri's father denied reports that Wail had an aeronautics degree, as some news reports said, "My son Wail was 25 years old and had a BA in physical education from the Abha Teacher's College. He was mentally ill and had gone to numerous clerics for assistance in overcoming this instability. He had asked the school, where he taught, for a 6-month leave to go to Madinah."
Saudi officials later stated that the names of the hijackers were in fact correct, and that 15 of the 19 hijackers were Saudi.
'''Mohamed Abrini (joske)''' (born 27 December 1984)
Abrini is a Belgian national of Moroccan descent and was a childhood friend of both Salah Abdeslam and his brother Brahim. He was 31 at the time of his arrest.
During the manhunt for Salah Abdeslam, video footage was recovered, showing Abrini with Abdeslam at a petrol station on 11 November. In the footage, the two had stopped a black Renault Clio at the station.
A manhunt for Abrini was launched after his association with Abdeslam was uncovered. Belgian authorities issued a warrant for his arrest, and described him as being dangerous and likely armed.
Abrini is "more than likely" the "man in the hat" filmed at Brussels airport shortly before the explosions on 22 March 2016. He was filmed together with the two suicide bombers Najim Laachraoui and Ibrahim el-Bakraoui.
On 8 April 2016, he was arrested in the Anderlecht municipality of Brussels.
* Brussels ISIL terror cell
'''Manfo Kwaku Asiedu''' (
He was raised in Ghana and educated to the equivalent of A-level standard. He entered Britain on a flight from Ghana in late 2003.
He was charged on 7 August 2005, with conspiracy to murder and conspiring to cause an explosion.
At 32, Asiedu was the oldest of those suspected, and was said to have no permanent address at the time of the alleged crime.  
There was initial confusion that Manfo was the son of Ghana's Deputy Inspector-General of Police, K.K. Asiedu, but his son was later tracked down and absolved.
He is held at the Belmarsh prison, and his first court appearance was 8 August 2005. He speaks the Twi language of Ghana and requires an interpreter in court.
* http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6563757.stm
#REDIRECT California State University, Fullerton massacre
'''Floyd Allen''' (July 5, 1856 - March 28, 1913) was an American landowner and patriarch of the Allen clan of Carroll County, Virginia. He was convicted and executed for murder in 1913 after a sensational courthouse shootout the previous year that left a judge, prosecutor, sheriff, and two others dead, although the validity of the conviction has been source of debate within Carroll County for decades. Allen triggered the shooting at the Carroll County, Virginia|Carroll County Courthouse in Hillsville, Virginia on March 14, 1912, in which five people were killed and seven wounded.
Floyd Allen was born in 1856 and spent much of his life living in Cana, Virginia|Cana, below Fancy Gap Mountain in Carroll County, Virginia. He was the patriarch of Carroll County's leading family, which in addition to owning large tracts of farmland and a prosperous general store, were also active in local politics. Both Floyd Allen and Sidna Allen held legal licenses for the production of alcohol (Prohibition not taking effect until 1920). Allen was noted for his generosity, but also his quick temper, and easily injured pride.Caudill, Harry M., ''Slender Is The Thread: Tales From A Country Law Office'', Lexington: University of Kentucky Press (1987), ISBN 978-0-8131-1611-2, 081310811X, pp. 78-79: Attorney W.A. Daugherty remembered Floyd Allen as a man of sterling character in the matter of personal honesty, but who could not abide a personal affront: [Floyd] "would kill you in a second over some little matter most people wouldn't remember two minutes."
The Allens were proud Democrats and active in local politics in Carroll County. As a result, many of Allens held local offices (such as constable, tax collector, or deputy sheriff) and supported various political friends for office.Meloney, William B., ''The Man From Down Yonder'', ''Everybody's Magazine'', Vol. 26, January-June 1912, pp. 783-784
Floyd had a history of violent altercations, including shooting a black man in North Carolina, beating a police officer in Mount Airy, and later shooting his own cousin.  In May 1889, Floyd's brothers, Garland and Sidna Allen, were tried for carrying concealed pistols and assaulting a group of thirteen men.Hall, Randall, ''A Courtroom Massacre: Politics And Public Sentiment In Progressive-era Virginia'', Journal of Southern History 70, 1 May 2004, pp. 249--252  In July 1889 the Carroll County court indicted Floyd for assault as well, but in December of that year the Commonwealth's Attorney dropped the case.Hall, Randall, pp. 249-252  In September 1889, after pleading no contest to the assault, Garland and Sidna were fined $5 each plus court costs, and the prosecutor dropped the weapons charges.Hall, Randall, pp. 249-252
Judge Robert C. Jackson, an attorney in Roanoke and Judge Thornton Massie's predecessor in the Carroll County courtroom, stated that "Floyd Allen was perhaps the worst man of the clan--overbearing, vindictive, high tempered, brutal, with no respect for law and little or no regard for human life. During my term of office Floyd Allen was several times charged with violations of law. In several instances he escaped indictment, I am satisfied, because the witnesses were afraid to testify to the facts before the grand jury."
Judge Jackson recalled a trial in 1904 in which Floyd was convicted of assaulting a neighbor, Noah Combs.  That year, Floyd wanted to buy a farm owned by one of his brothers, but could not agree on a price.  Combs wanted the land badly enough to pay the asking price and bought it despite Floyd's warnings not to "butt in."  Not long afterward Floyd shot Combs (who recovered), and was indicted and tried on charges of assault.  Sentenced by the jury to an hour in jail and a $100 fine, plus costs, Floyd immediately posted bail pending an appeal.  His defense team included former Commonwealth's Attorney Walter Tipton and recent County Court Judge Oglesby.  At the next term of court, Floyd produced a pardon from Governor Andrew J. Montague suspending the jail sentence.
In another instance, arguing over the administration of their father's estate, Floyd Allen got into a gunfight with his own brother, Jasper (Jack), a local constable. In a fusillade of shots, Floyd hit Jack in the head, which struck a glancing blow on Jack's scalp, while one of Jack's bullets hit Floyd in the chest.  His pistol empty, Floyd proceeded to beat Jack with the butt of his empty revolver. Sentenced to a $100 fine and one hour in jail for wounding his brother, Floyd refused to go, saying that he "would never spend a minute in jail as long as the blood flowed through his veins".  Floyd's body bore the scars of thirteen bullet wounds, five of them inflicted in quarrels with his own family.''Allens Executed; Respite Plan Failed'', The New York Times, 29 March 1913
Despite their history of violence, the Allens held considerable political power, and Floyd had a reputation for courage.Caudill, Harry M., ''Slender Is The Thread: Tales From A Country Law Office'', Lexington: University of Kentucky Press (1987), ISBN 978-0-8131-1611-2, 081310811X, p. 74  In 1908, while serving as special deputies, Floyd and H.C. (Henry) Allen, a relative of Floyd, were charged with unlawful assault upon prisoners held in their custody who had reportedly resisted arrest.''Communication From The Governor Of Virginia: List Of Pardons, Commutations, Respites, And Remissions Of Fines, And Reasons Therefor'', Senate Document No. V, Journal of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Virginia, Richmond, VA 12 January 1910, p. 66  On February 1, 1908 the Allens were convicted of the charge and sentenced to ten days in jail and a fine of $10.''Communication From The Governor Of Virginia'', p. 66  Only a month later, their petition for executive clemency was granted by Governor Claude A. Swanson, restoring their political rights to hold office.''Communication From The Governor Of Virginia'', p. 66
In 1910 Sidna Allen, Floyd's brother, was tried in the United States court at Greensboro, North Carolina, for making twenty-dollar counterfeit coins. The federal court in Greensboro found him not guilty, while Sidna's alleged accomplice, Preston Dickens, was found guilty and sentenced to serve five years in federal prison. Sidna was retried and found guilty of perjury in his trial testimony, and was sentenced to two years' imprisonment.Meloney, William B., ''The Man From Down Yonder'', p. 783-784  Sidna promptly appealed and gained a new trial on the perjury charge. The next year, after the Allens complained that they could not expect justice from William Foster, the Republican Commonwealth Attorney of the county (who had recently switched parties), Judge Thornton L. Massie had appointed both Floyd and H. C. (Henry) Allen to the post of police officer for the New River section of the county.Caudill, Harry M., ''Slender Is The Thread'', p. 74Hines, Emilee, ''It Happened In Virginia'', Globe Pequot Press (2001), ISBN 978-0-7627-1166-6, p. 84
However, times were changing: Virginia's judicial structure was altered in a series of legal reforms, particularly the county court system, which was replaced by circuit courts. The new system appointed a full-time judge to hold court at scheduled intervals in a circuit of several counties. While the state legislature still appointed circuit judges, the new system reduced the ability of individual delegates to ensure that their preferred judge was selected for their particular county; furthermore, judges could no longer practice law for private clients while on the bench, and as regional judges their susceptibility to local influence and public opinion was reduced.
One night in December 1910 (some sources say 1911), two of Allen's nephews, Wesley Edwards and Sidna Edwards, attended a corn shucking bee in Hillsville.  While there, Wesley kissed a girl who was romantically linked to a local youth, Will Thomas.  This soon led to an altercation between Thomas and Edwards.  At a church service the next morning conducted by Wesley Edwards' uncle, Garland Allen, Will Thomas reportedly called out Wesley Edwards into a fight.  According to Wesley Edwards, Thomas and three friends assaulted him and he defended himself with the help of his brother Sidna, who rushed to join the fight.  Following a complaint lodged by Wesley Edwards' father, George, Wesley and his brother Sidna Edwards were charged with disorderly conduct, assault with a deadly weapon, disturbing a public worship service, and other violations.''Last Of Allen Clan Is Killed, The New York Times, 19 March 1916  Rather than face arrest, the two men fled over the state line to Mt. Airy in Surry County, North Carolina, where they found jobs in a granite quarry.  The Deputy Clerk of Carroll County, Dexter Goad, obtained a new warrant for the brothers' arrest, notifying the sheriff in Surry County, who soon arrested both men.  Deputy Clerk Goad then sent a deputy (Thomas F. Samuel) with a driver (Peter Easter) to the North Carolina border to receive the Edwards brothers.
Deputy Thomas F. Samuel and Peter Easter traveled in Easter's four-seater buggy to the state line and received the Edwards boys from Sheriff Haynes and Deputy Oscar Monday, who had arrested the brothers at work.Hall, Randall, ''A Courtroom Massacre: Politics and Public Sentiment in Progressive-Era Virginia'', Journal of Southern History 70 (May 2004), pp. 249-292  There was only one set of handcuffs, and because Sidna Edwards had tried to escape a couple of times, Wesley was handcuffed in the front seat of the buggy beside Easter and Sidna was tied in the back seat beside Samuel.  On the way to the courthouse, the buggy passed by several properties owned by the Allens.
Floyd Allen met the buggy south of Sidna Allen's home as he was on the way to his own home.  Deputy Samuel pulled a gun (later determined to be inoperative) and ordered Floyd to move away, and Floyd rode back past the buggy to Sidna's store where he then blocked the narrow road with his mare.  Samuel again pulled his gun on Floyd. A fight ensued and Floyd beat Samuel with his own pistol.  Wesley Edwards tried to grapple with Easter, but Easter got away and fired a shot at Floyd as he did so, wounding Floyd in the finger.  Floyd then released the Edwards brothers. Easter ran an acquaintance's home, and he telephoned the sheriff at Hillsville.
Deputy Samuel was left lying unconscious in a ditch, and his horses were run off.Meloney, William B., The Man From Down Yonder, p. 783-784 Floyd Allen later stated that he never intended to have the boys set completely free, he just wanted them to be released from their manacles and treated as humans instead of animals.
Some say that the boys were not only manacled but being dragged behind the buggy.
On the following Monday, Wesley and Sidna Edwards were turned over to the court by Floyd Allen, and the two Edwards brothers were soon tried and convicted of their crimes. Wesley was sentenced to sixty days and his brother thirty, which were served outside jail on work-release.
The Commonwealth's attorney, William Foster had served as Carroll County's prosecutor for eight years, having been first elected on the Democratic ticket. Later, Foster changed to the Republican party, and by 1912 was a prominent leader in the GOP in Carroll County, being elected the last time on the Republican ticket.  Foster was a political enemy of the Allens, who had supported Constable Jack Allen's son Walter as Democratic candidate for Commonwealth's Attorney against Foster in the last election (Walter Allen had lost the bitterly fought race).Meloney, William B., ''The Man From Down Yonder'', Everybody's Magazine, Vol. 26, January-June 1912, p. 783-784: In the aftermath of the race, Floyd Allen claimed it had been told to him that Foster had said the whole Allen clan "ought to be killed", an allegation Foster denied.  Allen told Foster he couldn't prove Foster made the statement, "but if it could, I'd blow your brains out where you stand."
Foster called upon a grand jury to investigate the escape/pistol-whipping incident. Floyd Allen agreed to testify and admitted 'roughing up' Samuel, but denied intending to release the prisoners: "That there Samuel[s] was abusing the boys. He had them handcuffed and tied up with a rope. I just can't bear to see anyone drug around."
Nonetheless, the grand jury indicted Floyd Allen, Sidna Allen and Barnett Allen for interfering with the deputies, and Floyd Allen was also indicted for assault and battery upon deputy Samuel. Sidna Allen was never tried for his part in the altercation, while Barnett Allen was acquitted at trial.
When Floyd Allen's case was set for trial, rumors arose that he had sent word to Deputy Samuel that he would kill Samuel if the deputy testified against him. Allen later denied this, but the threat, whoever sent it, caused Deputy Samuel to leave the state the same night the threat was delivered.Meloney, William B., ''The Man From Down Yonder'', Everybody's Magazine, Vol. 26, January-June 1912, p. 788
The rumor that the Allens were intimidating witnesses was called to the attention of the court. Judge Massie called Constable Jack Allen and Floyd Allen (whom he had also deputized about six months earlier) to the bar and proceeded to question them about the alleged intimidation. Jack Allen denied all responsibility for the allegations of intimidation, which he stated were not true and insisted neither he nor Floyd were guilty of any wrongdoing. In response, the judge told the two men that if the law could not be enforced in Carroll County by the county officers (meaning Jack and Floyd) that he would get rid of the officers and bring in state troops if necessary to maintain order. A witness later testified that Floyd Allen had remarked that he "would not let any man talk to me that way."''Allen Boys Tell Of Shooting'', ''The Bluefield Daily Telegraph'', 11 May 1912
After close to a year of delays, Floyd was finally brought to trial on March 13, 1912.Wiley, Edwin. ''The Allens of Fancy Gap''. Lulu Press, 2011, p. 228.  Judge Thornton L. Massie, who had deputized Floyd six months earlier, presided. Floyd Allen was well represented by a two attorney team. Both Walter Scott Tipton and David Winton Bolen, were retired Carroll County judges.
Samuel's departure forced Commonwealth's Attorney William M. Foster to rely on testimony from Deputy Easter. The jury could not agree on a verdict immediately as the trial ended, and were sequestered in a local hotel overnight. 
Fearful of the Allens' reaction, and having received death threats, many officials of the court armed themselves.  At least two of the participants, Judge Massie and Sheriff Webb, had told friends that they expected trouble.  Many of Allen clan members spectators in the courtroom, most of them armed with pistols. Sidna Allen and Claud Allen stood on benches in the courtroom's northeast corner to see over the crowd. Friel Allen sat in the back of the room, and the Edwards boys stood on benches next to the north wall.  When the jury returned a guilty verdict against Floyd, sentencing him to one year in the penitentiary, Floyd Allen is reported to have said to Judge Massie: "If you sentence me on that verdict, I will kill you.""Judge T.L. Massie and Two Court Officers Murdered By Allen Gang at Hillsville", ''The Roanoke Times'', 15 March 1912  Judge Massie at once proceeded to sentence Floyd to one year's imprisonment.
According to Floyd Allen's defense attorney, David Winton Bolen, "[Floyd] hesitated a moment, and then he arose...He looked to me like a man who was about to say something, and had hardly made up his mind what he was going to say, but as he got straight, he moved off to my left, I would say five or six feet, and he seemed to gain his speech, and he said something like this, 'I just tell you, I ain't a'going.'""One Caught; Allen Gang Will Give Up", ''The New York Times'', 23 March 1912: In contrast to Attorney Bolen's version of Floyd's reaction to the sentence, Sidna Edwards stated that his uncle Floyd "jumped up" after hearing the sentence, and appeared considerably agitated.  At this point, shots broke out in the courtroom.
Accounts differ as to who actually fired the first shot. Many accounts claim that Allen initiated the confrontation by pulling a gun in court.  In his defense testimony, Floyd Allen stated that Sheriff Lew F. Webb fired first, but that the shot missed Allen, at which point Deputy Clerk Goad, the Clerk of Court, fired and hit Allen, causing him to fall.  (When Floyd fell, wounded, he landed on top of his lawyer David Bolen, who is reported to have said, "Floyd, they are going to kill me shooting at you!")  Floyd Allen stated that only then did he draw his own revolver and begin shooting.  After a fusillade of shots, the Allen clan left the courthouse, armed with both pistols and 12-gauge pump shotguns, and shooting as they ran.
Judge Massie, Sheriff Webb, Commonwealth's Attorney Foster, and the jury foreman (Augustus C. Fowler),  were all hit and died of their wounds sustained in the crossfire. More than fifty bullets were later recovered from the shooting scene.  Elizabeth Ayers, a 19 year old subpoenaed witness who had testified against Floyd Allen, was shot in the back while trying to leave the courtroom, and died at home the next day."Floyd Allen Defense Gets Well Into Case", Bluefield, W. Va.: ''The Bluefield Telegraph'', 9 May 1912: Solomon Ayers, a cousin of Elizabeth Ayers, testified that Elizabeth was shot through the back above the waistline and the bullet ranged upward and exited her right breast.
Seven others were wounded, including Deputy Clerk Goad and Floyd Allen. Floyd, wounded too badly in the hip, thigh and knee to leave town, instead spent the night in the Elliott Hotel accompanied by his eldest son, Victor, who was later acquitted of involvement in the shootout. Upon his arrest by deputies at the hotel, Floyd attempted to slash his own throat with a pocketknife, but was overpowered before he could complete the job."Two More Dead in Allen Feud", ''The New York Times'', 16 March 1912
Virginia law held that when a sheriff died his deputies lost all legal powers, so the shooting left Carroll County without law enforcement by the shooting. Recognizing the need for immediate action, assistant clerk S. Floyd Landreth sent a telegram to Democratic Governor William Hodges Mann which read:
Send troops to the County of Carroll at once. Mob violence, the court. Commonwealth's Attorney, Sheriff, some jurors and others shot on the conviction of Floyd Allen for a felony. Sheriff and Commonwealth's Attorney dead, court serious. Look after this now.
Governor Mann immediately called on the Baldwin-Felts Detective Agency to find those responsible for the shootings and arrest them.  The Commonwealth of Virginia posted rewards ($1000 for Sidna Allen, $1000 for Sidna Edwards, $800 for Claude Allen, $500 for Friel Allen, and $500 for Wesley Edwards) - dead or alive."One Caught; Allen Gang Will Give Up", ''The New York Times'', 23 March 1912
Within a month, all suspected shooters were in custody, except Sidna Allen and Wesley Edwards. During the initial manhunt, several posses of detectives and local deputies searched the surrounding countryside. Friel Allen gave himself up to detectives in the company of his father Jack Allen, who worried his son might be killed while being apprehended.
Claud Allen and Sidna Edwards were soon arrested after a brief search. The U.S. Revenue Service had sent Deputy Agent Faddis to investigate reports of illegal liquor trafficking by the Allens."Posse On Night Ride To Surround Allens", ''The New York Times'', 20 March 1912 Agent Faddis and four men raided Floyd Allen's property, seizing illegal stills and fifty gallons of moonshine. Two more illegal stills were found at Sidna Edwards' house.
However, Sidna Allen and his nephew Wesley Edwards fled Virginia. After several months' chase, Baldwin-Felts detectives located them in Iowa after an informant's tip. Sidna Allen maintained until the end of his life that this informant was Maude Iroller, Wesley's fiancee, who provided information on the fugitives' location in exchange for $500 from the detective agency. Others state that Miss Iroller's father, who had never approved of his daughter's romance with Wesley Edwards, tipped off the detectives that Maude was going to Des Moines to marry him. Baldwin-Felts detectives traveled to Des Moines, arrested the suspects, and returned them to Carroll County to stand trial.
Floyd Allen was the first to be brought to trial on a charge of murdering Judge Massie, Sheriff Webb, and Commonwealth's Attorney Foster.  Judge W.R. Staples presided over the courthouse shooting trials, which were prosecuted by Assistant Attorney General Samuel W. Williams and involved attorneys Draper, Landreth, Poage and Wysor.
The prosecutor's case was based on the formation of a conspiracy by the Allens to kill the trial judge, local law enforcement, and others who had wronged them in the event of a guilty verdict. J. E. Kearn, a traveling salesman from Roanoke, testified he sold Sidna Allen a lot of ammunition at the March term of the Hillsville court, specifically 500 each of .32 and .38 caliber pistol cartridges and 500 12-gauge shotgun shells."Accuses Dexter Goad Of Shooting Betty Ayers", ''The Bluefield Daily Telegraph'', Bluefield, W. Va.: 20 November 1912
The prosecution attempted to show that Floyd and Claud Allen prompted the gun battle by standing and pulling their pistols and opening fire. Former judge David Winton Bolen, who had been present during the shooting as one of Floyd Allen's defense attorneys, was the first witness the prosecution called at Floyd Allen's murder trial. Bolen had been standing next to Floyd Allen, and was facing Judge Massie when the first shots struck the judge's robes. Bolen testified that Claud Allen fired the first shot, and that Claud Allen's pistol shot, together with a second shot fired by Sidna Allen killed Judge Massie."Claude Allen First To Fire At Hillsville", ''The Bluefield Daily Telegraph'', Bluefield, W. Va., 3 May 1912
Another prosecution witnesses was Floyd Allen's other attorney, Walter S. Tipton. Tipton testified he saw Claud Allen in the court house with a pistol raised in both hands as if he had just fired it. During a second glance Tipton again saw Floyd with his pistol raised and held in both hands; he then saw Floyd Allen fire his pistol."Saw Allen In Act Of Firing", ''The Bluefield Daily Telegraph'', Bluefield, W. Va., 28 May 1912
Yet another lawyer who witnessed the shooting, W.A. Daugherty of Pikeville, stated that several young men were standing on court benches at the back of the room firing their pistols "like Custer's cavalrymen at the Little Big Horn".Caudill, Harry M., ''Slender Is The Thread: Tales From A Country Law Office'', Lexington: University of Kentucky Press (1987), ISBN 978-0-8131-1611-2, 081310811X, p. 78
Deputy Sheriff George W. Edwards, who became the sheriff of Carroll County after Sheriff Webb's death, testified that, as a deputy sheriff at the time, he had spoken with Floyd Allen just after Allen learned of his indictment. Floyd said that Commonwealth's Attorney Foster would not give him a show; but that if he did not there would be a "big hole put in the court house." The next witness was Sidney Towe, who largely corroborated the testimony of Sheriff Edwards. On a different occasion, he heard Floyd Allen make the same threat of putting the biggest hole in the court house that any man ever had seen."Prosecution Tries To Show A Conspiracy", ''The Bluefield Daily Telegraph'', Bluefield, W. Va., 4 May 1912
On the other hand, Floyd Allen and his relatives claimed that Deputy Clerk Dexter Goad fired first, prompted by a long-standing vendetta he and Foster held against the Allen family. The defense attempted to show that Deputy Clerk Goad shot Elizabeth Ayers in his exchange of fire with the Allens, a charge Goad denied."Accuses Dexter Goad Of Shooting Betty Ayers", ''The Bluefield Daily Telegraph'', Bluefield, W. Va., 20 November 1912  Years later, an allegation surfaced that Deputy Clerk H.C. Quesinberry confessed on his deathbed to starting the shooting; two men swore an affidavit to that effect in 1967 (for which each man was reportedly paid $25).  Others consider that hearsay affidavit, made years after the event transpired, worthless, and that Floyd Allen probably began the shooting. Still others claim that Sheriff Webb accidentally discharged his own revolver, instigating the fusillade.
In his testimony at his murder trial, Floyd Allen admitted that he had fired at Deputy Clerk H.C. Quesinberry and again twice more at other unknown persons once he had left the courthouse."Sheriff Fired First, Says Floyd Allen", ''The New York Times'', 12 May 1912
Deputy Clerk Dexter Goad admitted firing the second shot at Floyd, striking him in the pelvis. His said he thought Floyd's fumbling with his sweater buttons was a prelude to drawing his pistol. However, Goad denied firing the first shot in the fusillade. Though wounded by four bullets himself, Goad recovered.
S. E. Gardner, a Hillsville undertaker who prepared the body of Sheriff Webb for burial, testified that the Sheriff was shot no less than five times. One bullet entered the back and ranged upward, lodging directly under the collarbone. A second shot entered the back about four inches lower, while a third shot cut the sheriff across the chin. Another entered the body at the cap of the left hip and passed through the abdomen. The last and fifth shot went into the calf of the leg and when his trousers were removed, a .32 caliber bullet was discovered.
Attorney Howard C. Gilmer, of Pulaski, Virginia,  was at Hillsville Courthouse in a room adjoining Judge Massie's courtroom when the shooting broke out.  Gilmer testified he heard two shots in quick succession, after which there was a slight interval and then a great volley of firing.  He also testified that he saw the crowd come out of the court house, and recognized Floyd and Sidna Allen as the last to leave, both of them following and firing as they backed out, apparently in response to fire coming from within the courthouse.  Gilmer said he heard Floyd Allen say two or three times, "I am shot, but I got the damn scoundrel."
County Treasurer J. B. Marshall testified that when the shooting started he turned to escape the courthouse. After getting down the steps he leaned against the window of his office when two girls, Dora and Elizabeth Ayers, passed him."Floyd Allen Defense Gets Well Into Case", Bluefield, W. Va.: ''The Bluefield Telegraph'', 9 May 1912  He testified that one of the girls pointed out some of the Allens leaving the court house, when Sidna Allen came toward him, pointed his pistol toward him, and fired.  Marshall then related that Sidna Allen's bullet buried itself in the window about six inches above his head. Marshall also testified he had been standing near Sheriff Webb, but did not see any pistol in the Sheriff's hand.
Another witness, Walter Petty, also testified that the first shots were fired from the courtroom's northeast corner, where Claud Allen was standing. Petty also witnessed a pistol duel between Sidna Allen and Deputy Clerk Dexter Goad."Defense Continues Efforts To Disprove Conspiracy", ''The Bluefield Daily Telegraph'', Bluefield, W. Va., 10 May 1912
At Claude Allen's trial for the murder of Commonwealth's Attorney Foster, Judge David W. Bolen was again the prosecution's star witness. Judge Bolen confirmed his prior testimony that he saw Claud Allen fire the first shot at Judge Massie from the courtroom's northeast corner, whereupon Claud advanced toward the court officers to where Commonwealth's Attorney Foster was standing."Saw Claude Allen Fire First At Judge Massie", ''The Bluefield Daily Telegraph'', Bluefield, W. Va., 4 July 1912
For his part, Claud Allen admitted to firing his pistol while in the courtroom."Allen Boys Tell Of Shooting", Bluefield, W. Va.: ''The Bluefield Daily Telegraph'', 11 May 1912 Claud testified that he saw Sidna Allen firing just about the time he saw Deputy Clerk Goad fire.
Victor Allen, whose pistol was used in the courthouse shooting, said he saw Wesley Edwards from outside the courtroom firing a revolver through the courthouse window and over spectators' heads just after the shooting began, and later saw Edwards run from the courthouse together with Sidna Allen. Victor Allen also asserted that Claud's shooting must have done with his gun, since Claud had taken Victor's handgun as the two left their hotel in Hillsville on that morning..
Sidna Edwards testified that he was not armed on the day of the shooting and that he did not like to carry guns."One Caught; Allen Gang Will Give Up", ''The New York Times'', 23 March 1912: Edward's uncle, Jasper (Jack) Allen, insisted that Sidna Edwards was afraid of guns. He denied firing a gun during the courthouse shootings, and stated that he did not see who fired the first shot, but thought that it came from the vicinity of Deputy Clerk Goad's desk. Sidna Edwards had scalded his foot some years before and was partially lame, and limped out of the courthouse, riding his mother's horse back to his home.
Sidna Allen denied that he shot Judge Massie, or that he fired at Commonwealth's Attorney Foster, Sheriff Webb, or at Juror Fowler."State Closes Case In Sidna Allen Trial", ''The Bluefield Daily Telegraph'', Bluefield, W. Va., 7 December 1912 Allen claimed that when the shooting began, he drew his own revolver and fired five times at Deputy Clerk Goad and Deputy Sheriff Gillespie, because both men were firing at him. After those five shots, he dropped to his knees and reloaded his revolver.  Sidna stated that when he left the courthouse, Deputy Clerk Goad followed behind him, shooting him through the left arm, the bullet lodging in his left side.  He stated that he fired back at Goad on the court house steps, but denied shooting at Treasurer J. B. Marshall. He also said he went to Blankenship's Livery Stable after the incident, where he met other family members and left Hillsville with Claud Allen, Wesley Edwards, and Sidna Edwards.  They returned to their homes by traveling cross-country through the farm fields rather than public roads. Sidna Allen and Wesley Edwards then left Virginia, eventually reaching Des Moines, Iowa.
Floyd Allen was tried for the first-degree murder of Commonwealth's Attorney Foster. On May 18, 1912, the jury found Floyd Allen guilty. His stoic exterior gone, Floyd Allen wept freely as the verdict was read."Floyd Allen Must Die", Beckley, W. Va: ''The Raleigh Herald'', 24 May 1912 In July 1912, after three separate trials, Claud Allen was convicted of first-degree murder for the killing of Commonwealth's Attorney Foster, and for second-degree murder for the killing of Judge Massie."Claude Allen Convicted: He Is Found Guilty of Murdering Commonwealth's Attorney Foster", ''The New York Times'', 28 July 1912
For their roles in the shooting, Floyd and Claude Allen were sentenced to death by electrocution."Floyd Allen Must Pay Death Penalty", ''The New York Times'', 18 May 1912 Allen's death sentence was deeply unpopular with Allen supporters in the county, but many other residents were unsympathetic, surprised by the deaths of so many people over Floyd Allen's refusal to serve a year in prison. Governor Mann, who had received death threats in the same handwriting as the threats previously delivered to the trial judge, had to cut short a trip to Pennsylvania after learning his Lieutenant Governor, James Taylor Ellyson (1847-1919), had attempted to commute the Allens' sentences in his absence, instigating a brief constitutional power struggle between the two men.  Governor Mann refused a request to commute the death sentences to life imprisonment, and Floyd Allen was electrocuted on March 28, 1913 at 1:20PM. Eleven minutes later, his son Claud followed Allen to his death in the electric chair.
Sidna Allen pleaded guilty and received a total of 35 years in prison for the voluntary manslaughter of Commonwealth's Attorney Foster, and for second-degree murder of Judge Massie. He also pleaded guilty to second-degree murder for the shooting of Sheriff Webb, and was sentenced to 18 years' imprisonment. Wesley Edwards drew nine years for each count of murder for the slaying of Foster, Massie, and Webb for a total of 27 years' imprisonment. Sidna Edwards pleaded guilty in August 1912 to second-degree murder, and was sentenced to 15 years in the penitentiary. Friel Allen was tried in August 1912 and after confessing to shooting prosecutor Foster, was sentenced to 18 years in prison. Democratic Governor Elbert Lee Trinkle pardoned Friel Allen and Sidna Edwards in 1922. Governor Harry F. Byrd|Harry Flood Byrd in April, 1926 pardoned Sidna Allen and Wesley Edwards.
Victor Allen and Barnett Allen were acquitted.  Burden "Byrd" Marion, a cousin and neighbor, had all charges against him dropped.  Accounts differ as to whether this was for a lack of evidence, or because Marion became a state's witness and admitted his role in aiding the Allens.'"Last Of Allen Clan Is Killed", ''The New York Times'', 19 March 1916Colby, Frank M. (ed.), ''North Carolina: Politics and Government'', The New International Yearbook, New York: Dodd, Mead & Co. (1917), p. 495 Shortly after the Allen trials, law enforcement officers found a still in an old house on Burden Marion's farm, and he was arrested for making illegal liquor. He was tried in federal court, found guilty, and sentenced to a year in federal prison at Moundsville, West Virginia. He began his sentence in August 1913, and died of pneumonia in prison on November 25, 1913.Some sources claim that Burden Marion was found beaten to death in his cell.
The Carroll County prosecutor placed liens on all property owned by Floyd and Sidna Allen for the heirs of the victims.  After three wrongful death lawsuits by the victims' estates and survivors, that property was confiscated and sold at auction, forcing Sidna Allen's wife and two small daughters to live in rented quarters and work at menial jobs until Sidna's eventual pardon. Floyd Allen's son, Victor, bought his father's house so that his mother would not have to move. In 1921, however, he moved his family to Tabernacle Township, New Jersey.
Floyd Allen's brother Jasper (Jack) Allen lost his job as constable as a result of the Hillsville shooting, and soon his life.  On March 17, 1916, Jack Allen had stopped for the night in a roadhouse near Mt. Airy, North Carolina where he encountered Will McGraw, a moonshine hauler.''Information Annual 1916'', New York: Cumulative Digest Corp. (1917), p. 6''Little Creek: Local News'', Clinch Valley News, 24 March 1916  A dispute arose between McGraw and Jack Allen about the Hillsville tragedy; during the confrontation McGraw drew a gun and shot Allen twice, killing him on the spot. Jack Allen was buried near his home in Carroll County, in the presence of a thousand mourners.
Dead
* Thornton Lemmon Massie, judge
* Lewis Franklin Webb, Carroll County sheriff
* William McDonald Foster, Commonwealth's Attorney
* Augustus Cezar Fowler, juror
* Nancy Elizabeth Ayres, witness
Wounded
* Floyd Allen, defendant
* Sidna Allen, defendant
* Dexter Goad, Clerk of Court
* Christopher Columbus Cain, juror
* Andrew T. Howlett, spectator
* Elihue Clark Gillespie, Deputy
* Stuart Worrell, spectator
Both Claud and Sidna Allen were the subject of ballads for their actions; Sidna was pronounced "Sidney". Virginia State Senator Joseph T. Fitzpatrick reportedly once wrote the screenplay for a film based on the case.
The Sidna Allen House still stands in Fancy Gap, Virginia; it is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
American football coach Frank Beamer is a grandson of Barnett Allen.
* Biography in John T. Kneebone et al., eds., ''Dictionary of Virginia Biography'' (Richmond: The Library of Virginia, 1998-    ), 1:78-82. ISBN 978-0-88490-189-1
* 
* 
* , at 
*, at 
* 
* 
* 
* 
'''Lorne J. Acquin''' (born March 21, 1950)http://www.ctinmateinfo.state.ct.us/detailsupv.asp?id_inmt_num=10716 is an American mass murderer who killed his foster brother's wife, her seven children, and their niece in their home at Cedar Hill Drive in Prospect, Connecticut|Prospect, Connecticut on July 22, 1977 by beating them to death with a tire iron. He afterward set fire to the building and escaped, but was arrested the following day and sentenced to 105 years in prison two years later.
It was the largest mass murder in Connecticut history until the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting.
On Friday, July 22, 1977 Lorne J. Acquin came to the home of his foster brother Fred Beaudoin, who was at work at that time, and killed the latter's wife Cheryl, their seven children, and a niece of theirs by bludgeoning them to death with a tire iron. He afterward spread gasoline around the house, set it on fire and escaped.
The charred body of Cheryl Beaudoin was later found on the kitchen floor, while the bodies of three children were found in one bedroom, and two more children in another. One further child was found dead in the master bedroom and two more bodies were found in the bathroom. Several of the children, as well as Cheryl Beaudoin, had their hands tied behind their backs. Two of the other children's feet were tied together. All of the children appeared to have head wounds.
Within 24 hours, police interviewed more than a hundred witnesses, including Fred Beaudoin and Lorne J. Acquin. The following Sunday night, Acquin agreed to make a statement to police in which he admitted to attacking his sister-in-law and the children. Later that day, he was charged with nine counts of murder and one count of arson.
*Cheryl Beaudoin, 29
*Frederick Beaudoin, 12
*Sharon Lee Beaudoin, 10 
*Debra Ann Beaudoin, 9 
*Paul Beaudoin, 8
*Roderick Beaudoin, 6
*Holly Lyn Beaudoin, 5
*Mary Lou Beaudoin, 4
*Jennifer Santoro, 6
Acquin went to trial on July 16, 1979. He was sentenced to 25 years to life on each murder conviction and 20 years for arson. He is serving his sentence in  MacDougall-Walker Correctional Institution.
* Lane, Brian & Gregg, Wilfred: ; Carroll & Graf Publishers, New York, United States, 2004. ISBN 978-0786713561
*Richards, Cara Elizabeth: ; Rowman & Littlefield, 2000. ISBN 9780842026031
* , ''The New York Times'' (July 23, 1977)
* , ''The New York Times'' (July 24, 1977)
* , ''The New York Times'' (July 25, 1977)
* , ''The New York Times'' (July 26, 1977)
* , ''The New York Times'' (August 28, 1977)
* , ''The New York Times'' (September 8, 1977)
* , ''The New York Times'' (June 2, 1979)
* , ''The New York Times'' (July 17, 1979)
* , ''The New York Times'' (July 28, 1979)
* , ''The New York Times'' (October 7, 1979)
* , ''The New York Times'' (October 20, 1979)
* , ''The New York Times'' (December 1, 1979)
*, ''Spokane Daily Chronicle'' (July 24, 1977)
* , ''Spokane Daily Chronicle'' (July 25, 1977)
* , ''Spokane Daily Chronicle'' (July 27, 1977)
*, ''The Prescott Courier'' (July 24, 1977)
*, ''The Evening Independent'' (July 26, 1977) 
* , ''The Bryan Times'' (July 23, 1977)
* , ''Ludington Daily News'' (July 23, 1977)
* , ''St. Petersburg Times'' (July 23, 1977)
* , ''St. Petersburg Times'' (July 23, 1977)
* , ''St. Petersburg Times'' (July 24, 1977)
* , ''St. Petersburg Times'' (July 25, 1977)
*, ''St. Petersburg Times'' (July 28, 1977)
* , ''St. Petersburg Times'' (December 1, 1979)
* , ''The Spokesman-Review'' (July 24, 1977)
* , ''Ocala Star-Banner'' (July 24, 1977)
* , ''Ocala Star-Banner'' (July 26, 1977)
* , ''The Ledger'' (July 23, 1977)
* , ''The Ledger'' (July 24, 1977)
* , ''The Ledger'' (October 19, 1979)
* , ''The Ledger'' (October 20, 1979)
* , ''The Ledger'' (December 1, 1979)
* , ''The Victoria Advocate'' (July 24, 1977)
* , ''Boca Raton News'' (July 25, 1977)
* , ''The Virgin Islands Daily News'' (July 25, 1977)
* , ''The Milwaukee Sentinel'' (July 25, 1977)
* , ''The Milwaukee Sentinel'' (October 20, 1979)
* , ''The Victoria Advocate'' (July 25, 1977)
* , ''Kingman Daily Miner'' (July 25, 1977)
* , ''Eugene Register-Guard'' (July 27, 1977)
* , ''Eugene Register-Guard'' (October 20, 1979)
* , ''Boca Raton News'' (July 28, 1977)
* , ''Boca Raton News'' (August 3, 1977)
* , ''Ellensburg Daily Record'' (July 28, 1977)
* , ''Ellensburg Daily Record'' (August 1, 1977)
* , ''Ellensburg Daily Record'' (August 3, 1977)
* , ''Spokane Daily Chronicle'' (October 20, 1979)
* , ''Toledo Blade'' (December 1, 1979)
* , ''Eugene Register-Guard'' (December 1, 1979)
#REDIRECTWashington Navy Yard shooting#Perpetrator
#REDIRECT2001 Isla Vista killings
'''Moner Mohammad Abu Salha''' (also '''Munir Mohammed Abou Saleha''' aka '''Abu Hurayra al-Amriki''') was an American suicide bomber who killed himself and several Syrian troops with a truck bomb in Ariha, Syria in the name of Jabhat an-Nusra|al-Nusra Front.
Salha was raised in Vero Beach, Florida, by a Sunni Palestinian father and an Italian-American mother. At the age of 22, he became the first known American suicide bomber to die in Syria. He produced a video describing his motivation to die on behalf of the al-Nusra Front.
Salha's name later came up as a contact in an unsuccessful 2014 investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The subject of that investigation was Omar Mateen, who would later commit the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting.
#REDIRECT 2007 Carnation murders
'''Karl Wilhelm Albert''' (8 September 1898 in - 21 April 1960 in Erndtebrück) was a German SS officer.Ernst Klee: ''Das Personenlexikon zum Dritten Reich'', Frankfurt am Main 2007, p. 11
Albert was the son of a teacher.  After his primary and secondary studies, he fought in the First World War as a soldier.  Later he participated in battles fought by the ''Freikorps''.  He trained as an electrical engineer and earned his Doktor-Ingenieur.
Albert joined the NSDAP on 1 May 1932 (no. 1,122,215) and the SS on 1 August 1932 (no. 36,189), and began working for the ''Sicherheitsdienst'' (SD), the intelligence service of the SS.
In autumn 1933, as an SS-''Sturmführer'', Albert was entrusted with the direction of the SD-Oberabschnitt West section of the SD, located in Düsseldorf, and later the Oberabschnitt Rhein section, located in Frankfurt.  In 1935, he succeeded Werner Best as the chief of staff and the organization of the central administration of the SD.
After the reorganization of the SD in January 1936, Albert took over the management of the one of its three bureaus, the newly created Amt I (Administration).Saul Friedländer: ''Nazi Germany and the Jews: The Years of Persecution, 1933-1939'', New York : HarperCollins, 1997, p. 197  This promotion made him one of the five leaders highest in the hierarchy, along with Reinhard Heydrich, Werner Best, Heinz Jost and Franz Six.  After the founding of the ''SS-Reichssicherheitshauptamt'' (RSHA), Albert took over the Central Section I (staff, administration, organization).
In April 1939, Albert was promoted to SS-''Brigadeführer''.  In 1939, he was appointed along with Werner Best, Walter Schellenberg and Kurt Pomme as director of the Stiftung Nordhav.
During World War II, Albert was chief of police in Litzmannstadt (Lódz).  After his replacement in 1944, he became the successor to the district president Hans Burkhardt in the district Hohensalza in Reichsgau Wartheland.
After the war, Albert was interned until 1947.  He was never heard in the Federal Republic of Germany in connection with Nazi crimes until his death.''This article incorporates information from the :fr:Wilhelm Albert (SS-Führer)|corresponding article in the French Wikipedia''This article incorporates information from the :de:Wilhelm Albert|corresponding article in the German Wikipedia
* Shlomo Aronson: ''Reinhard Heydrich und die Frühgeschichte von Gestapo und SD'', 1967.
* George C. Browder: „Die Anfänge des SD. Dokumente aus der Organisationsgeschichte des Sicherheitsdienstes des Reichsführers SS", in: ''Vierteljahrshefte für Zeitgeschichte'' 27 (1979), p. 299-324.
* Ernst Klee: ''Das Personenlexikon zum Dritten Reich''. Fischer, Frankfurt am Main 2007. ISBN 978-3-596-16048-8. (second edition, updated)
#REDIRECT 2011 Liège attack
'''Phillip Austin''' (born in Northampton, England) is a British murderer. During the course of a day in July 2000, Austin killed his wife Claire (aged 31) and their two children, Kieren (aged 8) and Jade (aged 7).
Claire and Phillip Austin married in 1993, after the births of their children. Austin worked the night shift as a forklift operator, and Claire worked for Northamptonshire County Council as a part-time home help. Phillip Austin was 31 years old when he    murdered his family.
On 10 July 2000, Austin and Claire were at the house they shared on the Standens Barn housing estate in Northampton. Austin hit his wife over the head with a mallet, purchased that same morning specifically for that purpose. Having changed out of his bloody clothes, Austin drove to Claire's place of employment and told them she had injured her back and would not be able to work later that day as scheduled. Austin proceeded to pick up his children from school, and took them out for a meal of fish and chips on the way home. Once home, Austin sedated both children and strangled them in their bedrooms.
One week later, staff at the children's school contacted Claire Austin's mother, Carol and Harry Quinn. The Quinns went to the Austin house and Carol Quinn discovered the bodies of her daughter and grandchildren.
During the week in which the murders remained undiscovered, Austin spent the week on the run, in Blackpool and Scarborough, North Yorkshire|Scarborough. On 20 July, Austin was arrested in the Lake District, as he sat in his car with his wrists slashed.
When asked what caused him to attack his wife, Austin told detectives, "She started hassling me and arguing and that. I just turned on her." When asked his reasons for murdering his children, he stated, "It sort of came to me that I had killed her so I went upstairs and killed my children."
Austin initially pleaded not guilty to the murders on the grounds of diminished responsibility, but in court on 22 March 2001, he changed his plea to guilty. That same day, Austin was given three concurrent life sentences. Austin will have to serve a minimum of 20 years, after which time he will be eligible to apply for parole.
'''Gameel Al-Batouti''' (
Al-Batouti was born in the farming community of Kafr al-Dabusi, Egypt. His father was a mayor and a landowner, and family members were well educated and affluent.
Al-Batouti had been conscripted into the Egyptian Air Force, where he was trained as a pilot and flight instructor. He then worked for a time as an instructor at the Egypt Aviation Academy. His position there was described by one colleague as "high profile."
While in the Air Force, Al-Batouti served as a pilot in both the 1967 Six-Day War and the 1973 Yom Kippur War.
Al-Batouti was hired by EgyptAir on 8 September 1987. He held type ratings for the Boeing 737|Boeing 737-200, Boeing 767|Boeing 767-200 and the 767-300. At the time of the crash, he had logged 12,538 hours of flight time, with 5,755 as pilot in command and 5,191 in the 767.
Al-Batouti was approaching mandatory retirement (aviation regulations prevented him from flying as a commercial airline pilot after age 60), and had planned to split his time between a 10-bedroom villa outside of Cairo and a beach house near El Alamein.
At the time of his death, Al-Batouti was the most senior first officer flying the 767 at EgyptAir. He was not promoted to captain because he declined to sit for the exam for his Airline Transport Pilot Licence (ATPL) rating. The ATPL study materials and exam are conducted in English, the international language of aviation, and Al-Batouti did not have sufficient English proficiency. Once he reached 55, the possibility of promotion was further hindered by EgyptAir policy which prevented promotions after that age. According to statements made by his colleagues to the NTSB during the Flight 990 investigation, he did not want to be promoted because, as senior first officer, he could get his preferred flight schedules, which assisted with his family situation. Despite not being promoted to captain, he was often called by that title because of his previous experience at the Egypt Aviation Academy.
Al-Batouti was the co-pilot that the NTSB suspected of deliberately crashing Flight 990 into the ocean, an assertion denied by Egyptian authorities. According to the flight recorders recovered after the crash, Al-Batouti asked to relieve the takeoff co-pilot far ahead of the normal shift, and then turned off the autopilot after the captain left the cockpit. Al-Batouti led the plane into a Descent (aircraft)#Dives|dive, continually repeating, "Tawkalt ala Allah" (), which translates to "I rely on God", 11 times. This phrase can also mean "I ''entrust'' myself unto God," hinting that he knew he was facing death. The captain then came back into the cockpit, tried to stop the dive, but could not prevent the plane from crashing into the sea.
Investigators learned from another pilot that Al-Batouti was supposedly reprimanded for repeated inappropriate behaviour with female guests at the Hotel Pennsylvania, a New York City hotel often used by EgyptAir crews. Hatem Roushdy, the EgyptAir official said to be responsible for the alleged reprimand, was a passenger on Flight 990. Investigators confirmed that shortly before the flight, Roushdy revoked Al-Batouti's privilege of flying to the United States and informed him that Flight 990 would be his last on the route.
The Egyptian Civil Aviation Authority disputes the cause of the crash, blaming mechanical problems rather than any action of Al-Batouti.
There was Western media speculation that Al-Batouti may have been a terrorist, although his family and friends indicated that he had no strong political beliefs.
Al-Batouti was married and had five children. The youngest, a daughter who was 10 at the time of the crash, suffered from lupus, and was undergoing medical treatment in Los Angeles. Efforts had been made at EgyptAir, both at a company level and at an employee level, to provide assistance to help defray the medical expenses.
According to FBI reports, Al-Batouti was a Promiscuity#Male promiscuity|promiscuous man who often made sexual advances toward maids and other women at his New York hotel.
* 
* 
'''Mahmud Abouhalima''' (; born 1959) is a convicted perpetrator of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. His red hair earned him the nickname '''Mahmud the Red'''.Benjamin, Daniel & Steven Simon. "The Age of Sacred Terror", 2002
Born to a mill foreman in Kafr Dawar, Egypt, Abouhalima spent his adolescence with the Al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, an outlawed Islamic group that heralded Omar Abdel Rahman as their spiritual leader. He briefly attended Alexandria University, but dropped out and left Egypt altogether in 1981, moving to Germany. There, he later recalled he had lived a life "of corruption - girls, drugs, you name it".
The following year, Germany denied him political asylum and he quickly married Renate Soika, a troubled German woman, which guaranteed he could remain in the country. He divorced Soika three years later, but shortly after he married another woman named Marianne Weber in a Muslim ceremony. He flew to Brooklyn with his new wife and after his American tourist visa expired, applied for amnesty claiming to be an agricultural worker and was accepted as a permanent resident under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.
He worked as a New York City cabdriver for five years from 1986-1991, though he saw his license suspended ten times during that period, for failing to attend traffic court for cab violations including traffic violations and an attempt to overcharge a customer.
In his free time, Abouhalima worked long hours for a non-profit group in Brooklyn that raised money for the Afghan Mujahideen.
Abouhalima travelled to Afghanistan in 1988, saying he wanted to prove he "was a Muslim, not a sheep", and received combat-training in Peshawar.
Ali Mohamed, a sergeant at Fort Bragg, provided United States Army manuals and other assistance to individuals at the al-Farouq Mosque, and some members including Abouhalima and El Sayyid Nosair practiced at the Calverton Shooting Range on Long Island, many of the group wearing t-shirts reading "Help Each Other in Goodness and Piety...A Muslim to a Muslim is a Brick Wall" with a map of Afghanistan emblazoned in the middle. Abouhalima wore an NRA cap during their practices. When Nosair assassinated Meir Kahane, Abouhalima was driving the purported getaway car, although Nosair accidentally jumped into another cab by mistake.
He was the subject of an FBI investigation through January 1993, at which point the investigation was called off, shortly before the World Trade Center bombing. On February 26, 1993, the day of the WTC bombing, he was seen by several witnesses with Mohammed A. Salameh at the Jersey City storage facility allegedly used to prepare the explosives.
Abouhalima fled to Saudi Arabia, and then back to his native Egypt where he was captured by Egyptian police, tortured, and handed back to the United States, mummified in duct tape.Mayer, Jane, "The Dark Side: The Inside Story of How the War on Terror Turned Into a War on American Ideals", 2008. p. 118
In March 1994, he received a sentence of 240 years in prison with no possibility of parole.  After an appeal, the sentence was later reduced to 1,300 months.  He is currently an inmate at ADX Florence in Florence, Colorado. His current release date as stated on the Bureau of Prisons website is 09-20-2087. retrieved on  12-26-2010.  His Federal Bureau of Prisons ID# is 28064-054."." Federal Bureau of Prisons. Retrieved on May 28, 2010.
}}
'''Mohamed Mohamed el-Amir Awad el-Sayed Atta''' ( At 33 years of age, he was the oldest hijacker to take part in the attacks.
Born in 1968 in a small town in Egypt's Nile Delta, Atta moved with his family to the Abdeen section of Cairo at the age of 10. Atta studied architecture at Cairo University, graduating in 1990, and continued his studies in Hamburg, Germany at the Hamburg University of Technology. In Hamburg, Atta became involved with the Al-Quds Mosque Hamburg|al-Quds Mosque, where he met Marwan al-Shehhi, Ramzi bin al-Shibh, and Ziad Jarrah, together forming the Hamburg cell. Atta disappeared from Germany for periods of time, spending some time in Afghanistan, including several months in late 1999 and early 2000 when he met Osama bin Laden and other top al-Qaeda leaders. Atta and the other Hamburg cell members were recruited by bin Laden and Khalid Sheikh Mohammed for the "planes operation" in the United States. Atta returned to Hamburg in February 2000, and began inquiring about flight training in the United States.
Atta arrived in the United States, together with Marwan al-Shehhi, in June 2000. Both ended up in Venice, Florida at Huffman Aviation, where they entered the Accelerated Pilot Program. Atta and Shehhi obtained instrument ratings in November 2000, and continued training on simulators and flight training. Beginning in May 2001, Atta assisted with the arrival of the muscle hijackers. In July 2001, Atta traveled to Spain where he met with bin al-Shibh to exchange information and finalize the plot. In August 2001, Atta traveled as a passenger on several "surveillance" flights, to establish in detail how the attacks could be carried out.
In early September 2001, Atta traveled to Prince George's County, Maryland, where fellow hijacker Hani Hanjour was at the time. Atta then traveled to Boston, and on September 10, with Abdulaziz al-Omari to Portland, Maine. They spent the night at the Comfort Inn in South Portland. On the morning of September 11, Atta and Omari traveled on Colgan Air back to Boston, where they boarded American Airlines Flight 11. Fifteen minutes into the flight, the team of hijackers attacked and Atta took over control of the aircraft. At 8:46 a.m., Atta crashed the Boeing 767 into the North Tower of the World Trade Center, killing everyone on board. The crash led to the collapse of the tower 102 minutes later at 10:28 A.M., ultimately causing the deaths of over 1600 civilians and first responders in the North Tower.
Mohamed Atta varied his name on documents, also using "Mehan Atta", "Mohammad El Amir", "Muhammad Atta", "Mohamed El Sayed", "Mohamed Elsayed", "Muhammad al-Amir", "Awag Al Sayyid Atta", "Muhammad al-Amir", and "Awad Al Sayad".  When he came to the United States, he used the name Mohamed Atta.  Atta also claimed different nationalities, sometimes Egyptian and other times telling people he was from the United Arab Emirates.
Atta was born on September 1, 1968 in Kafr el-Sheikh Governorate|Kafr el-Sheikh, located in Egypt's Nile Delta region.
When Atta was ten, his family moved to the Cairo neighborhood of Abdeen, located near the center of the city. Atta's father continued to keep the family private, and did not allow Atta to socialize with other neighborhood children. Atta spent most of his time at home studying, excelling in school.McDermott (2005), p. 12-14
Upon graduating from Cairo University, Atta's marks were average and insufficient to be accepted into the University's graduate program. His father insisted he go abroad for graduate studies, and had Atta enroll in a German-language program at the Goethe Institute in Cairo.Fouda and Fielding (2003), p. 78  In 1992, Atta's father invited a German couple over for dinner while they were visiting Cairo. The German couple ran an exchange program between Germany and Egypt, and suggested that Atta continue his studies in Germany. They offered him a temporary place to live at their house in the city. Mohamed Atta ended up in Germany two weeks later, in July 1992.
In Germany, Atta enrolled in the urban planning graduate program at the Hamburg University of Technology.  Atta initially stayed with the two high school teachers, but they found Atta frustrating owing to his closed-mindedness and intensely introverted personality. Atta also began adhering to a strictly Islamic diet, frequented the mosque, seldom socialized, and was unfriendly towards the couple's unmarried daughter who had a young child. After six months, they asked him to move out.McDermott (2005), pp. 22-23
By early 1993, Atta had moved into university housing, sharing an apartment in Centrumshaus with two roommates. He remained at Centrumshaus until 1998. During that time, his roommates became frustrated with Atta, who seldom cleaned, and kept to himself to the extent that he would walk in and out of a room without acknowledging others. Beyond anything else, they could not deal with Atta's personality, described as "complete, almost aggressive insularity".McDermott (2005), p. 25
At the Hamburg University of Technology, Atta studied under the guidance of the department chair, Dittmar Machule, who specialized in the Middle East.McDermott (2005), p. 24  Atta was concerned about modern development and the construction of high-rise buildings in Cairo and other ancient cities in the Middle East. He believed that the large, impersonal, and often ugly apartment blocks built in the 1960s and 1970s had ruined old neighborhoods, and took away privacy and dignity from people. Atta's own family moved into such an apartment block in 1990, which to him was "a shabby symbol of Egypt's haphazard attempts to modernize and its shameless embrace of the West."  For his thesis, Atta focused his studies on the ancient city of Aleppo in Syria. He explored the history of Aleppo's urban landscapes and the general themes of the conflict between Arab civilization and modernity. Atta criticized how the modern skyscrapers and development projects in Aleppo were disrupting the fabric of that city by blocking community streets and altering the skyline.
In 1994, Atta's professor, Dittmar Machule, invited him to Aleppo for a three-day archaeological visit.  While in Syria, he met Amal, a young Palestinian woman, who worked there in the planning bureau. Volker Hauth, who was traveling with Atta, described Amal as "attractive and self-confident. She observed the Muslim niceties, taking taxis to and from the office so as not to come into close physical contact with men on the buses. But, she was 'emancipated' and 'challenging'."  They appeared to be attracted to one another, but Atta regretfully explained to Hauth that, "she had a quite different orientation and that the emancipation of the young lady did not fit."  This was the closest thing to romance for Atta. In mid-1995, Atta spent three months in Cairo with fellow students Volker Hauth and Ralph Bodenstein, on a grant from the Carl Duisberg Society. They looked at the effects of redevelopment in the Islamic Cairo old quarter which the government wanted to develop for tourism. Atta remained in Cairo with his family, after Hauth and Bodenstein returned to Germany.McDermott (2005), p. 29-31Corbin (2003), p. 122
, Germany. (The door is visible on the left side - No. 54)
While in Hamburg, Atta held several jobs, including a part-time position at Plankontor, an urban planning firm, from 1992 until mid-1997 when he was laid off. The firm's business had declined, and when it bought a computer-aided design|CAD system, "his draughtsmanship was not needed."McDermott (2005), p. 47  Atta also worked at a cleaning firm, and buying and selling cars to earn extra money.  Atta was also concerned about actions of the Egyptian government in arresting political activists, and feared that he too would be a target due to his social and political beliefs.Corbin (2003), p. 123
After coming to Hamburg in 1992, Atta became more religious, frequently attending the mosque.
Atta went back to Egypt on August 1, 1995, for three months of study.Fouda and Fielding (2003), p. 82  Before going to Egypt, he grew a beard, which is a sign of a devout Muslim, but was also seen as a political gesture.  Atta returned to Hamburg on October 31, 1995, and joined the pilgrimage to Mecca that fall.
In Hamburg, Atta was drawn to Al-Quds Mosque Hamburg|al-Quds Mosque, which adhered to a "harsh, uncompromisingly fundamentalist, and resoundingly militant" version of Sunni Islam.McDermott (2005), p. 2-3  He made acquaintances at al-Quds, some of whom visited him at Centrumshaus. He also began teaching classes at Al-Quds, as well as at a Turkish mosque near Harburg. Atta also formed a prayer group, which Ahmed Maklat and Mounir El Motassadeq joined.  Ramzi bin al-Shibh was also there teaching occasional classes, and became Atta's friend.McDermott (2005), p. 34-37
On April 11, 1996, Atta signed his last will and testament at the mosque, officially declaring his Muslim beliefs and giving 18 instructions regarding his burial.Fouda and Fielding (2003), p. 77  This was the day that Israel attacked Lebanon in Operation Grapes of Wrath, which outraged Atta. Signing the will, "offering his life" was Atta's response.  The instructions in his last will and testament reflect both Sunni funeral practices, along with some more puritanical demands from Salafism, including asking people not "to weep and cry" or show emotion. The will was signed by el-Motassadeq and a second individual at the mosque.
After leaving Plankontor in the summer of 1997, Atta disappeared again and did not return until 1998.  Atta phoned his graduate advisor in 1998, after a year of doing nothing for his thesis, telling Machule that he had family problems at home and said, "Please understand, I don't want to talk about this."McDermott (2005), Chapter 5  At the winter break in 1997, Atta left and did not return to Hamburg for three months.  He said that he went on pilgrimage to Mecca again, just 18 months after his first time. Terry McDermott explained in ''Perfect Soldiers'' that it is highly unusual and unlikely for someone, especially a young student, to go on Hajj again that soon. Also, three months is an exceptionally long time, much longer than what Hajj requires.  When Atta returned, he claimed that his passport was lost and got a new one, which is a common tactic to erase evidence of travel to places such as Afghanistan.McDermott (2005), p. 57  When he returned in spring 1998, after disappearing for several months, he had grown a thick long beard, and "seemed more serious and aloof" to those who knew him.
By mid-1998, Atta was no longer eligible for university housing in Centrumshaus. He moved into a nearby apartment in Wilhelmsburg, where he lived with Said Bahaji and Ramzi bin al-Shibh. By early 1999, Atta had completed his thesis, and formally defended it in August 1999.
In mid-1998, Atta worked alongside Shehhi, bin al-Shibh, and Belfas, at a warehouse, packing computers in crates for shipping.McDermott (2005), p. 58  The Hamburg group did not stay in Wilhelmsburg for long. The next winter, they moved into an apartment at Marienstrasse 54 in the Harburg, Hamburg|borough of Harburg, near the Hamburg University of Technology,McDermott (2005), p. 63 at which they enrolled. It was here that the Hamburg cell developed and acted more as a group. They met three or four times a week to discuss their anti-American feelings and to plot possible attacks. Many al-Qaeda members lived in this apartment at various times, including hijacker Marwan al-Shehhi, Zakariya Essabar, and others.
In late 1999, Atta, Shehhi, Jarrah, Bahaji, and bin al-Shibh decided to travel to Chechnya to fight against the Russians, but were convinced by Khalid al-Masri and Mohamedou Ould Slahi at the last minute to change their plans. They instead traveled to Afghanistan over a two-week period in late November. On November 29, 1999, Mohamed Atta boarded Turkish Airlines Flight TK1662 from Hamburg to Istanbul, where he changed to flight TK1056 to Karachi, Pakistan.  After they arrived, they were selected by Al Qaeda leader Abu Hafs as suitable candidates for the "planes operation" plot. They were all well-educated, had experience of living in western society, along with some English skills, and would be able to obtain visas.  Even before bin al-Shibh had arrived, Atta, Shehhi, and Jarrah were sent to the House of Ghamdi near bin Laden's home in Kandahar, where he was waiting to meet them. Bin Laden asked them to pledge loyalty and commit to suicide missions, which Atta and the other three Hamburg men all accepted. Bin Laden sent them to see Mohammed Atef to get a general overview of the mission, and then they were sent to Karachi to see Khalid Sheikh Mohammed to go over specifics.McDermott (2005), p. 180
German investigators said that they had evidence that Mohamed Atta trained at al-Qaeda camps in Afghanistan from late 1999 to early 2000. The timing of the Afghanistan training was outlined on August 23, 2002 by a senior investigator. The investigator, Klaus Ulrich Kersten, director of Germany's federal anticrime agency, the Bundeskriminalamt, provided the first official confirmation that Atta and two other pilots had been in Afghanistan and the first dates of the training. Kersten said in an interview at the agency's headquarters in Wiesbaden, Germany, that Atta was in Afghanistan from late 1999 until early 2000,
A video surfaced in October 2006 which showed bin Laden at Tarnak Farms on January 8, 2000, and also showed Atta together with Ziad Jarrah reading their wills ten days later on January 18, 2000.
On March 22, 2000, while still in Germany, Mohamed Atta sent an e-mail to the Academy of Lakeland in Florida, inquiring about flight training, "Dear sir, we are a small group of young men from different Arab countries. Now, we are living in Germany since a while for study purposes. We would like to start training for the career of airline professional pilots. In this field, we haven't yet any knowledge but we are ready to undergo an intensive training program (up to ATP and eventually higher)." Atta sent 50-60 similar e-mails to other flight training schools in the United States.
On May 17, Mohamed Atta applied for a United States visa, receiving a five-year B-1/B-2 (tourist/business) visa the next day from the United States embassy in Berlin. Because Atta had lived in Germany for approximately five years, along with his "strong record as a student", he was treated favorably and not scrutinized.McDermott (2005), p. 194
On June 6, 2002, ABC's ''World News Tonight'' broadcast an interview with Johnelle Bryant, former loan officer at the U.S. Department of Agriculture in South Florida, who told about her encounter with Mohamed Atta. This encounter took place "around the third week of April to the third week of May of 2000", before Atta's official entry date into the United States (see below). According to Bryant, Atta wanted to finance the purchase of a crop-duster. "He wanted to finance a twin-engine, six-passenger aircraft and remove the seats," Bryant told ABC's ''World News Tonight''. He insisted that she write his name as ATTA, that he originally was from Egypt but had moved to Afghanistan, that he was an engineer and that his dream was to go to a flight school. He asked about the Pentagon and the White House. He said he wanted to visit the World Trade Center and asked Bryant about the security there. He mentioned Al Qaeda and said the organization "could use memberships from Americans". He mentioned Osama bin Laden and said "this man would someday be known as the world's greatest leader." Bryant said "the picture that came out in the newspaper, that's exactly what that man looked like."
According to official reports, Atta arrived on June 3, 2000, at Newark International Airport from Prague. That month, Atta and Shehhi stayed in hotels and rented rooms in New York City on a short-term basis. They continued to inquire about flight schools and personally visited some, including Airman Flight School in Norman, Oklahoma, which they visited on July 3, 2000. Days later, Shehhi and Atta ended up in Venice, Florida (On the Gulf Coast of South Florida).  Atta and Shehhi established accounts at SunTrust Bank and received wire transfers from Ammar al-Baluchi|Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed's nephew in the United Arab Emirates.  On July 6, 2000, Atta and Shehhi enrolled at Huffman Aviation in Venice, Florida, where they entered the Accelerated Pilot Program, while Ziad Jarrah took flight training from a different school also based in Venice.  When Atta and Shehhi arrived in Florida, they initially stayed with Huffman's bookkeeper and his wife in a spare room of their house. After a week, they were asked to leave because they were rude. Atta and Shehhi then moved into a small house nearby in Nokomis, Florida|Nokomis where they stayed for six months.
Atta began flight training on July 6, 2000, and continued training nearly every day. By the end of July, both Atta and Shehhi did solo flights. Atta earned his private pilot certificate in September, and then he and Shehhi decided to switch flight schools. Both enrolled at Jones Aviation in Sarasota, Florida|Sarasota and took training there for a brief time. They had problems following instructions and were both very upset when they failed their Stage 1 exam at Jones Aviation. They inquired about multi-engine planes and told the instructor that "they wanted to move quickly, because they had a job waiting in their country upon completion of their training in the U.S."  In mid-October, Atta and Shehhi returned to Huffman Aviation to continue training. In November 2000, Atta earned his instrument rating, and then a commercial pilot's license in December from the Federal Aviation Administration.
Atta continued with flight training, including solo flights and simulator time. On December 22, Atta and Shehhi applied to Eagle International for large jet and simulator training for McDonnell Douglas DC-9 and Boeing 737 Classic|Boeing 737-300 models. On December 26, Atta and Shehhi needed a tow for their rented Piper Cherokee on a taxiway of Miami International Airport after the engine shut down. On December 29 and 30, Atta and Marwan went to the Opa-locka Airport where they practiced on a Boeing 727 simulator, and they obtained Boeing 767 simulator training from Pan Am International on December 31. Atta purchased flight deck videos for Boeing 747#747-200|Boeing 747-200, Boeing 757#757-200|Boeing 757-200, Airbus A320 and Boeing 767|Boeing 767-300ER models via mail-order from Clermont County Airport|Sporty's Pilot Shop in Batavia, Ohio in November and December 2000.
Atta's cellphone was recorded phoning the Moroccan embassy in Washington on January 2, just before Shehhi flew to the country. Atta flew to Spain on January 4, 2001 to coordinate with bin al-Shibh and returned to the United States on January 10. While in the United States he traveled to Lawrenceville, Georgia, where he and Shehhi attended a LA Fitness Health Club. During that time Atta flew out of Briscoe Field in Lawrenceville with a pilot, and Atta and either the pilot or Shehhi flew around the Atlanta area. They lived in the area for several months. On April 3, Atta and Shehhi rented a postal box in Virginia Beach, Virginia.
On April 11, Atta and Shehhi rented an apartment at 10001 Atlantic Blvd, Apt. 122 in Coral Springs, Florida for $840 per month, and assisted with the arrival of the muscle hijackers. On April 16 Atta was given a citation for not having a valid driver's license, and began steps to get one. On May 2, Atta received his driver's license in Lauderdale Lakes, Florida. While in the United States, Atta owned a red 1989 Pontiac Grand Prix.
On June 27, Atta flew from Fort Lauderdale, Florida|Fort Lauderdale to Boston, Massachusetts, where he spent a day, and then continued to San Francisco for a short time, and from there to Las Vegas.  On June 28, Atta arrived at McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas to meet with the three other pilots. He rented a Chevrolet Malibu from an Alamo Rent A Car agency.  It is not known where he stayed that night, but on the 29th he registered at the Econo Lodge at 1150 South Las Vegas Boulevard. Here he presented an AAA membership for a discount, and paid cash for the $49.50/night room.  During his trip to Las Vegas, he is thought to have used a video camera that he had rented from a Select Photo outlet back in Delray Beach, Florida.
Atta left again in July 2001 for Spain to meet with bin al-Shibh for the last time. On July 7, 2001, Atta flew on Swissair Flight 117 from Miami to Zürich, where he had a stopover.
On the morning of July 9, Mohamed Atta rented a silver Hyundai Accent, which he booked from SIXT Rent-A-Car for July 9 to 16, and later extended to the 19th.  Yosri Fouda, who interviewed bin al-Shibh and Khalid Sheikh Mohammed (KSM) before the arrest, believes that Said Bahaji and KSM may have also been present at the meeting. Spanish investigators have said that Marwan al-Shehhi and two others later joined the meeting. Bin al-Shibh would not discuss this meeting with Fouda.Fouda and Fielding (2003), p. 216
During the Spain meetings, Atta and bin al-Shibh had coordinated the details of the attacks. The 9/11 Commission obtained details about the meeting, based on interrogations of bin al-Shibh in the weeks after his arrest in September 2002. Bin al-Shibh explained that he passed along instructions from Osama bin Laden, including his desire for the attacks to be carried out as soon as possible. Bin Laden was concerned about having so many operatives in the United States. Atta confirmed that all the muscle hijackers had arrived in the United States, without any problems, but said that he needed five to six more weeks to work out details. Bin Laden also asked that other operatives not be informed of the specific data until the last minute. During the meeting, Atta and bin al-Shibh also decided on the targets to be hit, ruling out a strike on a nuclear plant. Bin al-Shibh passed along bin Laden's list of targets; bin Laden wanted the U.S. Capitol, the Pentagon, and the World Trade Center to be attacked, as they were deemed "symbols of America." If any of the hijackers could not reach their intended targets, Atta said, they were to crash the plane. They also discussed the personal difficulties Atta was having with fellow hijacker Ziad Jarrah. Bin al-Shibh was worried that Jarrah might even abandon the plan. The 9/11 Commission Report speculated that the now-convicted terrorist conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui was being trained as a possible replacement for Jarrah.
From July 13 to 16, Atta stayed at the Hotel Sant Jordi in Tarragona.  After bin al-Shibh returned to Germany on July 16, 2001, Atta had three more days in Spain.  He spent two nights in Salou at the beachside Casablanca Playa Hotel, then spent the last two nights at the Hotel Residencia Montsant.  On July 19, Atta returned to the United States, flying on Delta Air Lines from Madrid to Fort Lauderdale, via Atlanta.
On July 22, 2001, Mohamed Atta rented a Mitsubishi Galant from Alamo Rent A Car, putting 3,836 miles on the vehicle before returning it on July 26.  On July 25, Atta dropped Ziad Jarrah off at Miami International Airport for a flight back to Germany. On July 26, Atta traveled via Continental Airlines to Newark, New Jersey, checked into the Kings Inn Hotel in Wayne, New Jersey and stayed there until July 30 when he took a flight from Newark back to Fort Lauderdale.
On August 4, Atta is believed to have been at Orlando International Airport waiting to pick up suspected "20th Hijacker" Mohammed al-Qahtani from Dubai, who ended up being held by immigration as "suspicious."  Atta was believed to have used a payphone at the airport to phone a number "linked to al-Qaeda" after Qahtani was denied entry.
On August 6, Atta and Shehhi rented a 1995 white, four door Ford Escort from Warrick's Rent-A-Car, which was returned on August 13. On August 6, Atta booked a flight on Spirit Airlines from Fort Lauderdale to Newark, leaving on August 7 and returning on August 9. The reservation was not used and canceled on August 9 with the reason "Family Medical Emergency". Instead, he went to Central Office & Travel in Pompano Beach to purchase a ticket for a flight to Newark, leaving on the evening of August 7 and schedule to return in the evening on August 9. Atta did not take the return flight. On August 7, Atta checked into the Wayne Inn in Wayne, New Jersey and checked out on August 9. The same day, he booked a one-way first class ticket via the Internet on America West Flight 244 from Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport to Las Vegas.  Atta traveled twice to Las Vegas on "surveillance flights" rehearsing how the 9/11 attacks would be carried out. Other hijackers traveled to Las Vegas at different times in the summer of 2001.
Throughout the summer, Atta met with Nawaf al-Hazmi to discuss the status of the operation on a monthly basis.Los Angeles Times, , September 27, 2002
On August 23, Atta's driver license was revoked trial in absentia|''in absentia'' after he failed to show up in traffic court to answer the earlier citation for driving without a license.
'''Marwan Yousef Mohamed Rashid Lekrab al-Shehhi''' ( – 11 September 2001) was the hijacker-pilot of United Airlines Flight 175, crashing the Boeing 767#767-200|plane into the South Tower of the World Trade Center (1973-2001)|World Trade Center as part of the September 11 attacks.
Al-Shehhi was a student from the United Arab Emirates who moved to Germany in 1996 and soon became close friends with Mohamed Atta, Ziad Jarrah and Ramzi bin al-Shibh, forming the Hamburg cell. Together, after pledging their lives to martyrdom, they became the leaders of the September 11 attacks. In late 1999, al-Shehhi, Atta, Jarrah, and bin al-Shibh traveled to terrorist training camps in Afghanistan and met with Osama bin Laden who recruited the four Hamburg cell members for the attacks in the United States. He arrived in the United States in May 2000, one month before Atta. They both trained in Florida at Huffman Aviation, receiving their commercial pilot licenses in December 2000 from the FAA.
Al-Shehhi spent his time making preparations for the attack itself, such as meeting with crucial planners abroad, assisting with the arrival of hijackers aboard the other flights, and travelling on surveillance flights determining details on how the hijacking would take place. On September 9, 2001, he traveled from Florida to Boston, where he stayed at the Milner Hotel until September 11. After boarding United Airlines Flight 175 at Logan International Airport, al-Shehhi and 4 other hijackers waited 30 minutes into the flight to make their attack, which then allowed al-Shehhi to take over control as pilot, and at 9:03 a.m., 17 minutes after Mohamed Atta crashed American Airlines Flight 11 into the North Tower, 23-year-old al-Shehhi crashed the Boeing 767#767-200|Boeing 767 into the South Tower of the World Trade Center. He was the youngest hijacker-pilot to participate in the attacks. The impact of the Boeing 767 operating as United 175 into the South Tower was seen live on television as it happened. 56 minutes later at 9:59 A.M., the 110-story skyscraper collapsed, killing hundreds of innocent people, including around 900 office workers and first responders.
Al-Shehhi was born in Ras al-Khaimah, on 9 May 1978, in the United Arab Emirates, to a Muslim cleric who died in 1997. He was described as a quiet and devout Muslim. After graduating from high school in 1995, al-Shehhi enlisted in the Emirati military and received a half a year of basic training before he was admitted into a military scholarship program that allowed him to continue his education in Germany. Upon arriving in Germany in April 1996, al-Shehhi moved into an apartment, which he shared with three other scholarship students for two months before boarding with a local German family. Several months later, he moved into his own apartment. Those who knew him described al-Shehhi as a very religious and friendly individual who wore western clothes and sometimes rented cars for trips to Berlin, France, and the Netherlands. 
While in Germany, al-Shehhi enrolled in the University of Bonn after completing a German course. He left Germany in June 1997 to attend to problems at home although the university forbade him. In early 1998, al-Shehhi transferred to the Technical University of Hamburg. A poor student, Marwan was directed by the Scholarship program administrators to repeat a semester of his studies back in Bonn beginning in August 1998. Al-Shehhi did not enroll back at Bonn until January 1999 and continued to struggle with his studies. By July 1999, Marwan returned to Hamburg to study shipbuilding. p. 179
After moving to Hamburg in 1998, al-Shehhi helped form the Hamburg cell with Mohamed Atta and Ramzi bin al-Shibh. There, his views became more and more radical. They met three or four times a week to discuss anti-American feelings and plot possible attacks. When someone asked why he and Atta never laughed, al-Shehhi retorted, "How can you laugh when people are dying in Palestine?", page 162.
Image:Marwan al-Shehhi at Wedding.jpg|thumb|left|Marwan al-Shehhi (far right) talking at Said Bahaji's wedding
In October 1999 Marwan al-Shehhi was filmed at Said Bahaji's wedding in Germany with other 9/11 hijackers including Ziad Jarrah., usatoday.com, 5 May 2003.
In late 1999, al-Shehhi, Atta, Ziad Jarrah, Said Bahaji, and Ramzi bin al-Shibh decided to travel to Chechnya to fight against the Russians, but were convinced by Khalid al-Masri and Mohamedou Ould Slahi at the last minute to change their plans. They instead traveled to Afghanistan to meet with Osama bin Laden and train for terrorist attacks. Immediately afterwards, Atta, al-Shehhi, and Jarrah reported their passports stolen, possibly to erase travel visas to Afghanistan. After their training, the hijackers began to attempt to hide their radicalism. al-Shehhi shaved his beard and seemed to his old friends like he had become less religious. After the attacks, a librarian in Hamburg reported that al-Shehhi boasted to her "There will be thousands of dead. You will think of me ... You will see, in America something is going to happen. There will be many people killed.", ''The Complete 9/11 Timeline: Cooperative Research''; accessed 14 February 2015.Butler, Desmond. , nytimes.com, 29 August 2002.Bernstein, Richard. , nytimes.com, 10 September 2002.
Al-Shehhi returned to Germany in March 2000, and began to learn to fly airplanes. Ammar al-Baluchi, one of the most important 9/11 financial organizers, bought a Boeing 747 flight simulator program using al-Shehhi's credit card. Eventually they decided that German flight schools would not work for them, and they decided to train in the United States. 
Image:Marwansflightrecord.jpg|left|thumb|80px|Shehhi's flight record from Huffman
Al-Shehhi was the first of the Hamburg group to leave for the United States. He arrived in Newark, New Jersey on 29 May 2000. Atta joined him the next month, and the two began to search for flight schools. Al-Shehhi posed as a body guard of Atta, who was also posing as a "Saudi Arabian royal family member" while the two of them took flying lessons in Venice, Florida. They logged hundreds of hours on a Boeing 727 flight simulator. They received their licenses by December 2000. Their expenses were paid for by Ali Abdul Aziz Ali. On either 26 or 27 December, Atta and Marwan abandoned a Piper Cherokee that had stalled on the runway of Miami International Airport. On 29 December, Atta and Marwan went to the Opa-Locka Airport and practiced on a Boeing 727 simulator. Al-Shehhi began to take "surveillance flights" in the summer of 2001, watching the operations of flight crews and making final preparations. 
Ziad Jarrah, Atta, and al-Shehhi, having progressed in their training, all took foreign trips during the holiday period of 2000-2001. When Atta returned to Florida, al-Shehhi left for Morocco, traveling to Casablanca in mid-January 2001. al-Shehhi's family, concerned about not having heard from him, reported him missing to the UAE government. The UAE embassy in turn contacted the Hamburg police and a UAE representative tried to find him in Germany, visiting mosques and al-Shehhi's last address in Hamburg. After learning that his family was looking for him, al-Shehhi telephoned them on 20 January and said he was living and studying in Hamburg. The UAE government then told the Hamburg police they could call off the search.
Atta and al-Shehhi both encountered some difficulty reentering the United States, on 10 January and 19 January, respectively. As neither had presented a student visa, both of them had to persuade INS inspectors that they should be admitted so that they could continue their flight training. Neither operative had any problem clearing customs. After returning to Florida from their trips, Atta and al-Shehhi visited Georgia, staying briefly in Norcross and Decatur, and renting a single-engine plane to fly with an instructor in Lawrenceville. By 19 February, Atta and al-Shehhi were in Virginia. They had rented a mailbox in Virginia Beach, cashed a check, and then promptly returned to Georgia, staying in Stone Mountain. In mid-March, Ziad Jarrah was in Georgia as well, staying in Decatur. At the end of the month, Jarrah left the United States again and visited Sengün in Germany for two weeks. In early April, Atta and al-Shehhi returned to Virginia Beach and closed the mailbox they had opened in February.
Atta and al-Shehhi returned to Virginia Beach from their travels in Georgia, making their way to a large Dar Al-Hijrah mosque, sometime in early April. They were joined there by 9/11 hijackers Nawaf al-Hazmi and Hani Hanjour who had moved out of San Diego and Arizona after living in or visiting Abdussattar Shaikh's house, where Khalid al-Mihdhar also stayed. This mosque had recently in January 2001 hired the same imam Anwar al-Awlaki with whom Hazmi had spent time at the Rabat mosque in San Diego. He remembered Hazmi from San Diego but denied having contact with Hazmi or Hanjour in Virginia. Atta and al-Shehhi returned to Florida and moved into an apartment in Coral Springs. Atta stayed in Florida, awaiting the arrival of the first muscle hijackers. Al-Shehhi, on the other hand, bought a ticket to Cairo and flew there from Miami on 18 April. Al-Shehhi met with Atta's father, who stated in a post-9/11 interview that al-Shehhi wanted to pick up Atta's international driver's license and some money.
Al-Shehhi returned to Miami on 2 May. That day, Atta and Jarrah were together, about 30 miles to the north, visiting a Department of Motor Vehicles office in Lauderdale Lakes, Florida, to get Florida driver's licenses. In mid-July 2001, some of the hijackers and members of the Hamburg cell gathered near Salou, Spain, for a period of a few days up to a couple of weeks. Since hotel records are sparse during some of that time, it is thought that they may have spent considerable time in and around safe houses related to the al-Qaeda leader in Spain, Imad Yarkas. After 9/11, Spanish investigators followed the trails backwards, and the events they uncovered were chronicled in the Spanish nationwide newspaper ''El País''. Witnesses told Spanish investigators they saw a man who resembled al-Shehhi on 17 July 2001 at the Universal Studios PortAventura theme park next to Salou, Spain. The visitor, who was accompanied by two men, inquired about rides at the customer service counter. Witnesses indicated these companions resembled Ziad Jarrah, the later pilot on United Airlines Flight 93, and Said Bahaji, a then 26-year-old German-Moroccan member of the al-Qaeda cell in Hamburg. Back in Germany, it had been Bahaji's 1999 wedding during which al-Shehhi was filmed. Other witnesses elsewhere had pointed out Bahaji from photos, as one of the men they saw in Spain. But Bahaji bore a resemblance in appearance to Atta, who was traced to the same areas in Spain via hotel and travel records.
On 23 August, Israeli Mossad reportedly gave al-Shehhi's name to the CIA as part of a list of 19 names they said were planning an attack in the near future. Only four of the names are known for certain, including al-Shehhi; Nawaf al-Hazmi, Mohamed Atta, and Khalid al-Mihdhar. ''The Complete 9/11 Timeline: Cooperative Research''., bbc.co.uk, 2 October 2002.
Image:Marwan Al-Shehhi full card.jpg|thumb|130px|Shehhi's motel registration
On 26 August, Marwan signed into the Panther Motel in Deerfield Beach, Florida, paying US$500, saying he wanted to stay until 2 September, and listing a Mailboxes Etc. as his permanent address. His register entry indicated that he was driving a blue Chevrolet Malibu, assumed to be the one rented by Atta two weeks prior, and manager Richard Surma said that he bent rules to allow Marwan to have another man as an overnight guest. On 28 August, Marwan went to the Miami International Airport, accompanied by an unknown man, where he purchased his ticket for Flight 175., FAS.org, 26 September 2002. On 9 September, the motel manager, cleaning the room that al-Shehhi had vacated, found a bag containing a German/English dictionary, a protractor, flight manuals and local airport listings. Another employee later reported finding  a box cutter. 
According to librarian Kathleen Hensmen, Wail al-Shehri and Waleed al-Shehri used Internet access at Delray Beach Public Library in August 2001, where they may have been looking at information on crop dusting. They reportedly left the library with a third middle-eastern man, thought to be Marwan al-Shehhi, whom Hensmen claimed asked her for the name of a local restaurant. Staff at Shuckum's Oyster Bar|Shuckum's Oyster Pub and Seafood Grill in Hollywood, Florida claimed they recognized both Atta and Marwan as two of the people who had been at the restaurant on either 7 or 8 September. While there are varying stories about Atta's activities, all sources indicate that al-Shehhi drank rum and coke while talking to the others. On 9 September, they flew to Boston. The next day, al-Shehhi and three of the other hijackers, Fayez Banihammad, Mohand al-Shehri, and Satam al-Suqami, shared a room at the Milner Hotel in Boston. 
According to the 9/11 Commission Report, al-Shehhi made a 3-minute call to Mohamed Atta (6:52-6:55 a.m.) on 11 September from within Logan International Airport as both American 11 and United 175 were to fly from Boston Logan to LAX. 
al-Shehhi boarded United 175 at 7:27 a.m. Around 30 minutes into the flight, between 8:42 and 8:46 a.m., the plane was hijacked. During the flight, the plane narrowly avoided a mid-air collision with another aircraft, Delta Airlines Flight 2315. Several calls were made from the plane to relatives, the passengers learning of the fate of American 11.
The plane was flown into the South Tower of the World Trade Center at 9:03:02 a.m. The plane crashed with a speed of approximately 590 mph (950 km/h). The plane was carrying about 10,000 gallons (37,850 litres) of jet fuel. It was seen live on television around the world as it crashed into the South Tower, being filmed from multiple vantage points. al-Shehhi flew the plane faster and lower into the tower than Atta did, into the eastern half of the South Tower's southern facade close to the southeast corner, leading to the South Tower collapsing before the North Tower, which was the first to be hit.
* PENTTBOM
* Thompson, Paul. ''The Terror Timeline''. ReganBooks, 2004. ISBN 0-06-078338-9.
* ''The 9/11 Commission Report''. W.W. Norton & Company. ISBN 0-393-32671-3.
* 
'''Andal Ampatuan Jr.''' (born August 15, 1976Al jazeera:  Manila Times: , line 11. 1 January 2010. Retrieved 13 February 2010.) is the former mayor of Datu Unsay, Maguindanao|Datu Unsay, Maguindanao, charged with multiple mass murder.  He is the son of patriarch Andal Ampatuan Sr., and his family continues to represent a powerful force in Mindanao politics. . ''Philippine Inquirer''. 23 November 2009. His brother, Zaldy Ampatuan, was the regional governor of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM).
Ampatuan came to international attention in November 2009 as a result of the Maguindanao massacre. He was to run for governor of the province against Esmael Mangudadatu in the Philippine general election, 2010|2010 elections. However, Mangudadatu's female relatives and a group of journalists were ambushed and killed in the massacre, and Ampatuan quickly became the prime suspect.
He is the 8th child of Andal Ampatuan, Sr.|Gov. Datu Andal S. Ampatuan Sr. and Bai Laila Uy-Ampatuan.
'''Andal Ampatuan Sr.''' (1941 - July 17, 2015) was the patriarch of the Ampatuan political family in Maguindanao province, on the island of Mindanao in the Philippines. He was elected Governor of Maguindanao in 2001, defeating incumbent Governor Zacaria Candao in the gubernatorial election on May 14, 2001. Ampatuan was suspected of involvement in the November 2009 Maguindanao massacre.
Ampatuan was already a vice mayor when President Ferdinand E. Marcos appointed him as mayor and officer-in-charge of Maganoy (now Shariff Aguak). When Corazon Aquino came into power via the 1986 EDSA People Power revolution, she replaced every locally elected official with officers-in-charge. Ampatuan Sr. was replaced by another Ampatuan, Datu Modi who served for two years in that capacity.
During the Philippine local election, 1988|1988 local elections, Andal Ampatuan Sr. then served for ten years. In the Philippine general election, 1998|1998 elections, Andal Sr. was elected as governor.
In 2001, the Ampatuan clan solidified its hold on power through a close friendship with Gloria Macapagal Arroyo when she assumed the presidency after EDSA People Power II. During the 2004 presidential elections, Arroyo dominated the polls in Shariff Aquak and most of Maguindanao. Amid speculation that cheating had occurred in Maguindanao and other Mindanao provinces, results were contested by Arroyo's main rival, popular actor Fernando Poe Jr.. The 2007 mid term elections for the Philippines senate had Maguindanao in focus once more as it was the only province that returned a 12-0 win for Arroyo's senate slate, Team Unity.
The Citizen Armed Force Geographic Unit (CAFGU) was created on July 25, 1987 when President Corazon C. Aquino signed Executive Order No. 264 entitled "Providing for the Citizen Armed Force".
In 2006, Arroyo issued Executive Order 546, allowing local officials and the police to deputize local militia to aid in the fight against insurgents. These are locally known as civilian volunteer organizations or CVOs. The Executive Order was issued shortly after an assassination attempt on Andal Ampatuan Sr.
Ampatuan's sons, Zaldy Ampatuan and Andal Ampatuan Jr., are both members of his political clan. Andal Ampatuan Jr. came to international attention in November 2009 as the prime suspect in the Maguindanao massacre.
#REDIRECT Jokela school shooting#Perpetrator
'''Fritz Heinrich Angerstein''' (January 3, 1891 – November 17, 1925) was a German mass murderer, who killed 8 people at his home in Haiger, on December 1, 1924. The subject of a media spectacle, Angerstein, along with Fritz Haarmann and Peter Kürten, is considered one of the "three great mass murderer trials" of the Weimar Republic-era of Germany.
Angerstein was sentenced to death eight times, and was executed in 1925.
Fritz Heinrich Angerstein was born on January 3, 1891 in Dillenburg, German Empire, the seventh of ten children. His father worked as a carpenter, and later as a steelworker, and was also the mayor of Dillenburg.; 1925., ''Coburger Zeitung'' (July 7, 1925).'''Cite error: The named reference VZ0607A was invoked but never defined''' Angerstein suffered from health problems during his childhood, including regular tuberculosis infections and having a rib surgically removed, but at age 14 began working as a surveyor, before being employed by the Nassauische Bergbau AG. Since 1917, he was procurator of a limestone mine in Haiger, which was taken over by the firm Van der Zypen & Charlier|van der Zypen in 1920., ''Archive in Nordrhein-Westfalen''.
In 1911, Angerstein married Käthe Barth, a devout methodist, and the marriage was described as happy, with Angerstein giving the impression of a loving and caring husband. Despite this, Käthe was afflicted with severe hysteria and also fell ill with an unknown intestinal disease in 1920.Herren, Rüdiger: ; F. Enke, 1973. His wife's illnesses mentally and physically exhausted Angerstein, who himself almost constantly suffered from various types of tuberculosis. The couple had no children, though Käthe had miscarried six times.Davies, Owen: ; Oxford University Press, 2010. The relationship with his mother-in-law was said to have been strained, because they were unable to have any children, and because of her poor treatment of his wife. Angerstein related that his mother-in-law often reduced Käthe's diet to soup, due to her ailments, though apparently she often burnt the meal, whereupon his wife would not eat anything at all. According to his own testimony, Angerstein once whipped his mother-in-law with a dog whip out of anger, because Käthe had run away from home due to another burnt meal. In the same instance, Angerstein also decided to shoot his mother-in-law and himself should his wife not return home.
In 1921, Käthe wrote a letter to her husband, telling him that due to her illnesses she could not be the wife he needed. After Angerstein had talked to her about the matter, they made the mutual decision to drown themselves, since they were both regularly sick at that time. However, when Angerstein was carrying his wife half-way into the water, they heard someone sing a song, which according to Angerstein brought them to their senses again, and aborted their suicide attempt. The same year, Angerstein, together with his wife, mother-in-law and sister-in-law, moved to Haiger after he received free lodging in a villa belonging to his employer, van der Zypen. The ground floor consisted of five bureaus for Angerstein and his assistants, first floor living quarters for himself and his wife, his sister-in-law and mother-in-law, and the attic for their maidservant. His salary was 390 Reichsmark per month, although Angerstein claimed van der Zypen owed him 90,000 Mark. Angerstein got into financial troubles, whereupon he began to embezzle money from his employer, which according to court records the total sum was 14,892 Reichsmark. The fraud was discovered by one of Angerstein's colleagues in November 1924. On the Friday before the murders, Angerstein witnessed his wife put away a notebook containing her last wishes, stating she was expecting to die soon. Angerstein, in the night from Nov. 30 to Dec. 1 found and read the notebook.
On the Saturday before the murders, Angerstein met with his manager named Nix for wage accounting and paid salaries, where Nix confronted him with the discrepancies in the accounting.  Startled by six shots during the night in front of the house, his wife began suffering from bloody diarrhea, vomiting, fainting and heart problems due to the agitation. Angerstein learned the next day that the shots had been fired during a birthday party, and he began to suffer from severe headaches.Lethen, Helmut: , trans. Don Reneau; University of California Press, Berkeley/Los Angeles/London 2002.
On the night of November 30 to December 1, 1924, Angerstein had damaged a telephone wire and some water pipes., Coburger Zeitung (December 3, 1924). Between 12 and 1 a.m., Angerstein awoke as his wife suffered from severe heart pain. He wanted to call a doctor, but his wife held him back, instead fetching his mother-in-law.  After she returned to her bed, Angerstein sat beside his wife, who was lying in bed, where she read him a letter. Angerstein then changed the pillow case, stained by his wife's vomiting. He overheard his wife and mother-in-law talking about another letter written by his brother-in-law, stating that he had syphilis, and that the disease could spread to other family members, agitating him. He then talked with his wife about the letter, and remembered his wife once telling him that she wanted to die the same hour he died. Angerstein then decided to kill his wife and himself, and when his wife fainted Angerstein fetched his revolver from another room. When he returned to the room his wife was awake, where she grabbed his hand and took his revolver from him, saying  "His own wife, Lord forgive him!", before fainting again. Angerstein then fetched his hunting dagger and fatally stabbed his wife 18 times with it. He then ran downstairs to his study and attempted to shoot himself, but both revolvers failed to fire. He then ran down to the cellar, looking for something with which to kill himself. Finding a hand-axe, he intended to cut off his own hand, but hearing his mother-in-law scream he ran back upstairs and killed her because, as he later claimed, he was angry about her having treated his sick wife badly.
Angerstein realized that their maidservant, Minna Stoll, was standing in front of him. She ran away and up the stairs to the attic, but just before she reached the door to the attic, Angerstein caught up with her, grabbed her from behind and hit her over the head with the hand-axe, whereupon she collapsed. Angerstein later stated that he killed her because she burned meals, was unclean, and because he and his wife were generally displeased with her. Her body was later found burnt on the first floor. Angerstein then returned to his bedroom and again hacked at the bodies of his mother-in-law and wife, fearing they might get up again. His mother-in-law was still moaning, but Angerstein returned to the kitchen, washed the axe and his hands, sat down and slept for a few hours. When his 18-year-old sister-in-law Ella Barth returned during the night from a train journey, she went upstairs and into the bathroom. Angerstein followed her and killed her with the axe, then covered her up because he could not stand to look at her corpse.
At approximately 7 a.m. on Monday, a book keeper, Ditthart, and a clerk, Kiel, arrived at the villa to work. One after the other Angerstein called them into his study, locked the door and killed them with the axe. During the course of the day he also killed the son of the villa gardener, Geist, and another laborer working for him, Darr, with a hatchet, fearing that they both might have seen the dead bodies., ''Flörsheimer Zeitung'' (December 6, 1924) (zweites Blatt) Angerstein's German Shepherd was later found in the locked cellar with its head smashed in. A man named Ebert arrived and Angerstein handed him a letter for his brother, before sending him away. Responding to questions about his dishevelled state, Angerstein answered that he was sick.
Afterwards, Angerstein poured out petrol (maybe brought with a truck later found a few kilometres outside of the town) in his study on the ground floor and the rooms on the first floor. He then went shopping in the city, buying two chocolate bars, according to himself for his "dear wife", and a flashlight. After sunset, Angerstein went back home and set the petrol alight, though the ground floor did not catch fire. He then stabbed himself several times, causing severe but not life-threatening wounds, then called for help. When help arrived, Angerstein claimed he had been attacked by bandits, who had killed everyone in the house and left him for dead., ''Coburger Zeitung'' (July 10, 1925); , ''Berkeley Daily Gazette'' (December 2, 1924). Angerstein told his helpers and the police that he was assaulted in his villa after he returned from town, and some people claimed to have seen 15 to 25 bandits., ''Berkeley Daily Gazette'' (December 2, 1924). Angerstein was brought to the hospital in Haiger, where he was operated on, while panic over the imaginary bandits spread across the Haiger, and extra policemen were sent for from Siegen and Wetzlar for protection, and militias were formed.
Georg Popp helped in the investigation of the murders, and the investigators raised doubts about Angerstein's story. The corpses had rigor mortis already set in, thus contradicting Angerstein's claims regarding when the killings had taken place. Angerstein's fingerprints were found on the dagger and on the dead bodies, and there were no signs of a robbery having taken place. During interrogation by the prosecutor, Angerstein denied having committed the killings himself, but often made contradictory statements regarding the deaths., ''Coburger Zeitung'' (December 4, 1924). Angerstein was arrested, though he remained in hospital. After the autopsies, he was accused of having committed the murders, and Angerstein finally confessed to his brother in the presence of a police officer., ''Coburger Zeitung'' (July 10, 1925).
* Käthe Angerstein, née Barth, Angerstein's wife
* Katharina Barth, Angerstein's mother-in-law
* Minna Stoll, Angerstein's maidservant
* Ella Barth, 18, Angerstein's sister-in-law
* Reinhold Diethardt, bookkeeper
* Heinrich Kiehl, clerk
* Alex Geiß, Angerstein's gardener
* Rudi Darr, gardener's assistant
Out of fear that the public could turn against Angerstein, he was brought to Limburg an der Lahn only two weeks before the trial started on July 1925. The trial was a media spectacle, gaining lots of publicity and coverage, and together with the trials of Fritz Haarmann and Peter Kürten, was considered one of the great mass murderer trials of the Weimar Republic. Angerstein was charged with 13 crimes, among them eight counts of murder, two counts of embezzlement, and one count each of forging documents, arson, and perjury. Angerstein claimed he did not embezzle money, but that van der Zypen had owed him money. A total of 153 witnesses and 27 experts were called., ''Flörsheimer Zeitung'' (July 8, 1925). Angerstein admitted to committing bribery and later to embezzlement.
On July 13, after six days of trial, Angerstein was sentenced to death eight times, once for each of the eight murders, and deprived of his civil rights for the rest of his life, while the other charges against him were dismissed. Angerstein accepted the verdict, stating that he did not want mercy and that his deed could only be atoned with his blood., ''Coburger Zeitung'' (July 14, 1925)., ''The Crawfordsville Review'' (July 14, 1925), ''The Evening Independent'' (July 14, 1925). 
On November 17, 1925, at 8 a.m., Angerstein was executed by decapitation with an axe by executioner Carl Gröpler in the courtyard of the Central Prison Freiendiez in Diez an der Lahn., ''Vossische Zeitung'' (November 17, 1925) (Abend-Ausgabe)., ''Youngstown Vindicator'' (November 18, 1925).
There was much speculation surrounding the motive behind the murders. It was assumed that Angerstein had been gripped by paranoia due to his embezzlement, and that he was attempting to get rid of witnesses. Reference to this was made in this context to Angerstein's suicide attempt. Rumours circulated to the effect that Angerstein was inspired by the Sixth and Seventh Books of Moses, which state that by killing nine people a seal may be activated that provides great riches.
The case has gained some notoriety for allegedly being one of the rare instances in which an optogram, a photograph taken from a dead person's retina, played a role in identifying and convicting a murderer. According to reports, one Professor Doehne of Cologne University photographed the retinas of two of Angerstein's victims, yielding one picture showing Angerstein's face, and a second one of Angerstein attacking his gardener with a hatchet. Substantial doubts have been raised about these claims though., ''Legal Tribune'' (December 18, 2012).Ings, Simon: ; Bloomsbury Publishing, 2008; p. 61. ISBN 9780747578055, ''The American Mercury'' (September 1925).
* Bender, Julie: Angerstein?; in Zeitschrift für Sexualwissenschaft, 12, 1925.
* Kracauer, Siegfried: ; in Schriften 5.1: p. 318-322.
* Langensscheidt, Paul: , . pp. 417-420
* Popp, G.: Der Fall Angerstein I. Kriminalistische Betrachtungen zur Mordsache Angerstein, in: Deutsche Juristen-Zeitung 1925, Heft 16, pp. 1225-1229.
* Schlesinger, Paul: ; Munich, 1977. p. 103-106.
* Lethen, Helmut: , in ''Cool Conduct: The Culture of Distance in Weimar Germany'', trans. Don Reneau; University of California Press, Berkeley/Los Angeles/London 2002.
* , ''The New York Times'' (December 3, 1924).
* , ''The New York Times'' (December 4, 1924).
* , ''The New York Times'' (December 8, 1924).
* , ''The New York Times'' (July 7, 1925).
* , ''The New York Times'' (July 14, 1925).
* , ''The New York Times'' (November 18, 1925).
* , ''Berkeley Daily Gazette'' (December 2, 1924).
* , ''The Border Cities Star'' (December 3, 1924).
* , ''The Morning Leader'' (December 4, 1924).
* , ''The Age'' (December 4, 1924).
* , ''Cape Girardeau Southeast Missourian'' (December 4, 1924).
* , ''Reading Eagle'' (December 4, 1924).
* , ''St. Petersburg Times'' (December 5, 1924).
* , ''Portsmouth Daily Times'' (July 7, 1925).
* , ''The Calgary Daily Herald'' (July 7, 1925).
* , ''The Crawfordsville Review'' (July 7, 1925).
* , ''The Atlanta Constitution'' (December 4, 1924).
* , ''Chicago Daily Tribune'' (December 8, 1924).
* , ''The Baltimore Sun'' (December 8, 1924).
* , ''The Atlanta Constitution'' (July 14, 1925).
*, ''Die neue Zeitung'' (December 3, 1924).
*, ''Die neue Zeitung'' (December 4, 1924).
*, ''Freiburger Zeitung'' (December 3, 1924).
*, ''Freiburger Zeitung'' (December 4, 1924).
*, ''Coburger Zeitung'' (December 3, 1924).
*, ''Coburger Zeitung'' (December 4, 1924).
*, ''Coburger Zeitung'' (July 7, 1925).
*, ''Coburger Zeitung'' (July 8, 1925).
*, ''Coburger Zeitung'' (July 9, 1925).
*, ''Coburger Zeitung'' (July 10, 1925).
*, ''Coburger Zeitung'' (July 11, 1925).
*, ''Coburger Zeitung'' (July 13, 1925).
*, ''Flörsheimer Zeitung'' (December 3, 1924).
*, ''Flörsheimer Zeitung'' (July 8, 1925).
*, ''Flörsheimer Zeitung'' (July 11, 1925).
*, ''Flörsheimer Zeitung'' (July 15, 1925).
*, ''Hochheimer Stadtanzeiger'' (December 5, 1924).
*, ''Hochheimer Stadtanzeiger'' (July 14, 1925).
*, ''Hochheimer Stadtanzeiger'' (July 10, 1925).
*, ''Hochheimer Stadtanzeiger'' (July 7, 1925).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (July 7, 1925) (Abend-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (July 7, 1925) (Morgen-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (July 8, 1925) (Abend-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (July 8, 1925) (Morgen-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (July 6, 1925) (Abend-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (July 9, 1925) (Abend-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (July 9, 1925) (Morgen-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (July 10, 1925) (Abend-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (July 11, 1925) (Morgen-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (July 14, 1925) (Morgen-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (July 13, 1925) (Abend-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (December 3, 1924) (Abend-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (December 4, 1924) (Morgen-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (December 4, 1924) (Abend-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (December 3, 1924) (Morgen-Ausgabe).
*, ''Vossische Zeitung'' (December 2, 1924) (Abend-Ausgabe).
'''Ahmed Mohammad Ajaj''' (; also transliterated ''Ahmad Mohammad Ajaj''; born 1966) was convicted of participating in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. He is currently serving a 115-year sentence at ADX Florence in Florence, Colorado for his role in the bombing.
Ajaj was born in the West Bank and immigrated to Houston, Texas, where he worked as a pizza delivery driver.
April 24, 1992, abandoning his first asylum claim, Ajaj flew from New York to Peshawar, Pakistan, using the alias '''Ibraham Salameh''', from there to Camp Khalden on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.  Lacking necessary credentials, Ajaj was sent to Saudi Arabia to obtain a letter of recommendation.
May 16, 1992, he flew to Saudi Arabia via United Arab Emirates where he procured a letter of introduction requesting the leader of Camp Khalden provide the bearer with training in the use of weapons and explosives.  Ajaj returned to Pakistan via UAE, arriving June 14, 1992, and began the bomb building course.
August 31, 1992, using services of a Pakistani travel agent, Ahmad Ajaj and Ramzi Yousef boarded Pakistan International Airlines flight 703 in Peshawar and flew to Karachi, Pakistan, then on to Kennedy Airport in New York City, flying first class during both legs of the trip, believing they would receive less scrutiny.
Ajaj and Yousef together had five passports and numerous documents supporting their aliases:  a Saudi passport showing signs of alteration, an Iraqi passport bought from a Pakistani official, a photo-substituted Swedish passport, a photo-substituted British passport, a Jordanian passport, identification cards, bank records, education records, and medical records, and carried WAMY published manuals. (911 Commission)
On September 1, 1992, at Kennedy airport Ajaj was sent to secondary immigration inspection, where he claimed he was a member of the Swedish press, travelling as ''Khurram Khan'' with International Student Identification card and a falsified Swedish passport.  It is unknown whether Ajaj was meant to cause a scene as a distraction to let Yousef slip through, or legitimately lost his temper, but he shouted to the inspector:  "My mother was Swedish!  If you don't believe me check your computer." The passport was legitimate, belonging to a Swedish citizen who had attended a training camp in Pakistan and surrendered his identity cards to those who ran the camp, but Ajaj had used simple school paste to plaster his own photograph over the legitimate owner.Katz, Samuel M. "Relentless Pursuit: The DSS and the manhunt for the al-Qaeda terrorists", 2002
In Ajaj's luggage INS inspector Mark Cozine and Robert Malafronte found a Saudi passport, altered Jordanian passport, with supporting documents for both; a plane ticket and British passport in the name of '''Mohammed Azan''', bomb-making manuals, videos and other materials on assemble weapons and explosives assembly, letters referencing his attendance at terrorist training camps; anti-American and anti-Israeli materials, instructions on document forgery, and two rubber stamp devices to alter the seal on passports issued from Saudi Arabia. One of the manuals, written in 1982, seven years before the group was founded, was entitled ''al-Qaeda'' (The Basics) and was more widely reported after the group came to prominence.Benjamin, Daniel & Steven Simon. "The Age of Sacred Terror", 2002 An INS supervisor informed the FBI Terrorist Task Force which declined to get involved but requested copies of the file.  The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms was notified but was "not interested."
Yousef was also sent to secondary immigration inspection for lacking  a passport or a visa that would allow him to enter U.S.  He presented an Iraqi passport he said he bought from a Pakistani official for $100 or more (up to $2700 in one report), adding that the passport was fraudulent.  Yousef claimed he was fleeing Saddam Hussein and needed asylum, that he had been recently beaten by Iraqi soldiers in Kuwait because they thought he was a member of a Kuwaiti guerilla organization.  INS inspector Martha Morales also found in his possession a boarding pass in the name of '''Mohammed Azan''', and an identity card, from Al-Bunyan Islamic Center in Arizona, with Yousef's photo and the name '''Khurram Khan''', under which Ajaj had traveled into the U.S.  Yousef had signed the back of the card as '''Ramzi Ahmed Yousef'''.
Yousef had checks from Lloyds Bank of London and an address book listing what Morales later called "unusual places [in America] for someone to visit whom had just come from halfway around the world."  Fingerprinted and photographed, his passport was confiscated.  Morales said Yousef spoke excellent English with a British accent, admitted his real name Ramzi Yousef and said he was born in UAE in 1967, and was a citizen of Pakistan.  Her Supervisor  overruled Morales's recommendation to detain Yousef on grounds the INS detention center was full - even though Yousef had committed acts of immigration fraud (travelling under three different identities and lying to an INS official), and also given inspectors evidence linking him to Ahmad Ajaj.  With intermingled documents and both men in secondary inspection, still Yousef was not linked to Ajaj.  He made a claim for political asylum and was released in the United States pending a hearing.
Ajaj's terrorist kit, counterfeit entry stamp, and outburst were all decoys intended to deflect INS attention away from Yousef and facilitate Yousef's processing - a premeditated plan intended to exploit routine activities of busy INS inspectors.  After more than 8 hours of questioning, at 5:00 a.m. September 2, 1992, INS handed Ajaj to Wackenhut Correctional Corporation for incarceration in a converted warehouse in Queens.
Ajaj's passport revealed his June 15, 1992 Pakistani entry stamp was counterfeit.  Ajaj told authorities he had a political asylum claim from a prior entry in February 1992, and was detained pending a hearing.  Ajaj later pleaded guilty to use of an altered passport and served six months in prison.  Yousef never appeared for his hearing.
Incarcerated from September 2, 1992, Ajaj remained in contact with Yousef and other co-conspirators and continued to be involved in the World Trade Center bombing plot.  Ajaj never contacted Yousef directly.  Calls were patched through "Big 5 Hamburgers" in Dallas, rendering law enforcement detection more difficult.  The calls were not translated until long after the WTC bombing.LA Times 11/14/2001
Beginning on December 4, 1992 (and later on December 29, 1992), Yousef placed a series of calls to Ajaj's lawyer in New York and to Ajaj's friend in Texas.  Later that same day, a call from Ajaj was transferred to Yousef, permitting the two to speak directly.  In the conversation, Ajaj immediately brought up the terrorist kit informing Yousef that the Court had ordered the government to return Ajaj's belongings. When Yousef asked if he could take possession of Ajaj's things, Ajaj readily agreed at first, but then said that it was not a good idea for Yousef personally to obtain the materials from the government because it might jeopardize Yousef's "business", which, Ajaj said, would be "a pity!"
Ajaj was released from prison March 1, 1993 - three days after the WTC bombing.  He was rearrested in connection with the attack March 9, 1993, and his asylum request was denied on April 24, 1993.  In jail at the time of the WTC bombing, Ajaj was convicted of having played a role "in the early stages of the conspiracy" and convicted of nine counts, sentenced to 115 years, fined $250,000, and ordered to pay 250 million dollars in restitution.Terrorism Knowledge Base
Ajaj did not give up on his political asylum claim.  He petitioned for a new attorney and an exclusion hearing - held to determine whether someone is admissible in the U.S. - in Houston, where he had filed his original political asylum claim.  Ajaj's request was denied April 24, 1993, on grounds that a passport holder from a visa waiver country who uses a fraudulent passport (Ajaj had used a bogus Swedish passport) is not entitled to such a hearing.  Not satisfied with that outcome, Ajaj asked to file a new political asylum claim and was given ten days by an immigration judge to do so.  Thus, Ajaj was able to file a political asylum claim after his arrest for involvement in the WTC bombing.
A 2011 NPR report claimed he was imprisoned in a highly restrictive Communication Management Unit.
In the late 1990s Ajaj was diagnosed with lung cancer. The U.S. Bureau of Prisons moved him to a medical facility, where he had surgery to remove the cancerous lung and received radiation treatment.  He has filed scores of grievances and several lawsuits against the U.S. prison system, alleging everything from interference with his mail to denial of access to lawyers, and violations of his Eighth Amendment rights. (Abbott, Rocky Mountain News 3/26/2005)
Ajaj was the only remaining plaintiff in a lawsuit by federal prisoners alleging harm from secondhand smoke seeping through the air filtration system at SuperMax.
, Margot Williams and Alyson Hurt, NPR, 3-3-11, retrieved 2011 03 04 from npr.org
*Steven Emerson, Jonathon Levin, , ''Testimony before the United States Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs'', July 31, 2003
*
*Mark S. Hamm, , ''Criminology Department Indiana State University'', June 1, 2005
*  -Center for Cooperative Research
* Robert I. Friedman, ''Mossad Linked To WTC Bomb Suspect'', Village Voice, 3 August 1993
'''Yahya Abd-al-Latif Ayyash''' (, transliterated ''al-Muhandis''). He was assassinated by Shin Bet on 5 January 1996.Former Shin Bet director Carmi Gillon confirmed the story in the documentary ''The Gatekeepers''.
He is a celebrated hero to Palestinians who have named streets and other locales in his honor.J.J. Goldberg,  The Forward 4 August 2015. 
* "Israeli streets named after Jewish terrorists. Don't let anyone tell you different".
* "There were 12 of them: nine members of the Irgun and three from the Stern Group, or Lehi. Two (Eliyahu Bet-Zuri and Eliyahu Hakim) were hanged for assassinating the British minister Lord Moyne in Cairo in 1945. One (Shlomo Ben-Yosef) unsuccessfully attacked an Arab civilian bus in the Galilee in 1938. Three (Avshalom Haviv, Meir Nakar, Yaakov Weiss) participated in the 1947 Acre prison break. The rest attacked British security personnel".
* "In addition to streets named for each individual, the neighborhood's main drag bears the name by which they're collectively remembered: Olei HaGardom, "those who ascended the gallows." Dozens more cities around Israel have an Olei HaGardom Street. Many have streets named for the individual members, too".
* "Two other streets in East Talpiot are named for Shmuel Azar and Moshe Marzouk, Egyptian Jews hanged in Cairo in 1955 for bombing the American and British libraries. The operation, known as the Lavon Affair, was a bone-headed plot by Israeli military intelligence meant to sour Egypt's ties with the West. Elsewhere in Israel are streets named for Hirsh Lekert, hanged in Vilna in 1902 for trying to assassinate the tsarist governor; Sholom Schwartzbard, who confessed to assassinating Ukrainian rebel leader Simon Petlura in Paris in 1926, but was acquitted by a French jury; and Herschel Grynszpan, who assassinated a Nazi diplomat in Paris in November 1938, touching off Kristallnacht."
Ayyash was born in Rafat, Salfit|Rafat on 22 February 1966, the eldest of three brothers. Al Qassam's website, however, states his birth date as 3 March 1966. for his talent in memorizing the Quran. While a boy, Ayyash showed a talent for electrical and mechanical work-repairing radios, television sets, and the like. After graduating from high school in 1985, he entered Birzeit University in 1987. He received a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering in 1991.Katz, 9, 70-71
Described as "well educated, ambitious, and soft-spoken," Ayyash hailed from a relatively affluent family. Married, with one child, Ayyash had planned to study for a master's degree in Jordan, but was denied permission to do so by Israeli authorities. It was around this time he joined Hamas.Rosaler, 2003, p. 36.
Ayyash built the bombs used in a number of Hamas suicide attacks: the Mehola Junction bombing, the Afula Bus massacre, the Hadera central station massacre, the Tel Aviv bus 5 massacre, the Egged bus 36 bombing, the Ramat Gan bus 20 bombing, and the Jerusalem bus 26 bombing. As part of a strategic alliance between Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Ayyash built the bombs used by Islamic Jihad at the Beit Lid massacre.Katz 77 (Bet El), 106-109 (Afula and Hadera), 147 (#5 bus), 167 (Biet Lid), 191 (#20 bus), 197 (#26 bus)
Because TNT and other high explosives were generally not available in the Palestinian territories (the West Bank and Gaza strip), Ayyash often used a combination of acetone and detergent, both commonly available household products. When combined, they form acetone peroxide, an explosive known as "Mother of Satan" for its instability.
Ayyash first came to the attention of Israeli security forces as a result of the failed bombing of Ramat Ef'al. Following a high-speed chase, three would-be Hamas suicide bombers were arrested by police. When police inspected their car, they found it rigged with a bomb-five  gasoline tanks filled to capacity, connected to an acetone peroxide-based detonator. After evacuating the area, sappers used a robot armed with a shotgun to shoot the detonator, in the hopes of defusing it. Instead, it detonated, in a massive explosion. [Police investigators] "were sure that if it had been detonated in a crowded area, it would have killed hundreds".
Israeli investigators learned Ayyash's name during subsequent interrogation of the three arrested suspects.Katz, 5-9
Following the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin, the Palestinian Authority began to cooperate more closely with Shin Bet in hunting Ayyash.Katz, 248 Shin Bet learned (through means that remain classified  that Ayyash had, on occasion, spent the night in the Gaza City home of Osama Hamad, a childhood friend of his.Katz, 249 Shin Bet had previously had dealings with Kamil Hamad, Osama Hamad's uncle.
In October 1995, Shin Bet operatives approached Kamil Hamad. After the Shin Bet threatened to inform Hamas of his betrayal, Kamil Hamad agreed to cooperate. Shin Bet agents gave Hamad a cell phone, and told him it was bugged so they could listen in on Ayyash's conversations.Katz, 251-252 They did not tell Hamad that, in addition to eavesdropping devices, it also contained 15 grams of RDX explosive.Katz, 260
Kamil Hamad gave the phone to his nephew Osama, knowing that Ayyash regularly used Osama's phones.Katz, 257 At 8:00 am on 5 January 1996, Ayyash's father called him. Ayyash picked it up and talked with his father. Overhead, an Israeli plane picked up their conversation and relayed it to an Israeli command post. When it was confirmed that it was Ayyash on the phone, Shin Bet remotely detonated it, killing Ayyash instantly. ''The Militant'', an international communist newsweekly, reported that "''100,000 Palestinians... attended the funeral''".. ''The Militant''. 22 January 1996 He was killed in Beit Lahia., ''New York Times''
Israel has a policy that it never confirms or denies its participation in targeted killings. Per this policy, Israel did not confirm or deny its role in killing Ayyash. This led to wild rumors and speculations as to the extent of their involvement. In 2012, former Shin Bet director Carmi Gillon confirmed the story in the documentary ''The Gatekeepers (film)|''The Gatekeepers''. Kamil Hamad has disappeared, the Israeli press speculates that for betraying Ayyash he received $1m (pounds 650,000), a fake passport and a visa to the US.
Following Ayyash's death, four suicide bombings killed over 60 Israelis in February and March 1996. The first of these took place shortly after the end of the 40-day mourning period for Ayyash and the cell that claimed responsibility called itself "Disciples of the martyr Yahya 'Ayyash", stating it was a revenge attack for his assassination. Israeli security services who later interrogated one of the organizers of the attacks said they were carried out by a sub-group of the Qassam Brigades, and that, "the attacks were most probably a direct reaction to the assassination of 'Ayyash [with] no far-reaching political goal."Gunning, 2008, .
In April 2010, Israel's Channel 10 reported that the Palestinian Authority named a street in Ramallah after Ayyash. The future presidential compound of the PA is being built on the street. Only a few weeks earlier, a square in Ramallah was named after the Palestinian militant Dalal Mughrabi who directed the 1978 Coastal Road massacre.
In response, Israel, the United States and Canada condemned the Palestinian Authority. The Israeli Prime Minister's Office called it an "outrageous glorification of terrorism by the Palestinian Authority" while a U.S. State Department spokesperson stated "we also strongly condemn the glorification of terrorists. Honoring terrorists who have murdered innocent civilians either by official statements or by the dedication of public places hurts peace efforts and must end."
The PA had previously named streets in Jenin and Beit Lahia as well as square in Jericho in honor of Ayyash.
* 
* 
* 
'''Satam Muhammed Abdel Rahman al-Suqami''' () (June 28, 1976 - September 11, 2001) was a Saudi law student and one of five hijackers of American Airlines Flight 11 as part of the September 11 attacks.
Suqami had been a law student until he was recruited into al-Qaeda along with Majed Moqed, another hijacker, and traveled to Afghanistan where he would be chosen to participate in the 9/11 attacks.
He arrived in the United States in April 2001. On September 11, 2001, Suqami boarded American Airlines Flight 11 and participated in the hijacking of the plane so that it could be crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center (1973-2001)|World Trade Center as part of the coordinated attacks.
A native of the Saudi Arabian city of Riyadh, Suqami was a law student at the King Saud University. While there he joined a (possible) former roommate named Majed Moqed in training for al-Qaida at Khalden, a large training facility near Kabul that was run by Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi. In November 2000, the two flew into Iran from Bahrain together.
The FBI says Suqami first arrived in the U.S. on April 23, 2001, with a visa that allowed him to remain in the country until May 21.  However, at least five residents of the ''Spanish Trace Apartments'' claim to recognize the photographs of both  Suqami and Salem al-Hazmi as living in the San Antonio complex earlier in 2001. Interestingly however, these residents and several others who claim to have known the hijackers, claim that the FBI photographs of Suqami and Hazmi are reversed. Other reports conflictingly suggested that Suqami was staying with Waleed al-Shehri in Hollywood, Florida and rented a black Toyota Corolla from Alamo Rent-A-Car agency.
On May 19, Suqami and Waleed al-Shehri took a flight from Fort Lauderdale, Florida|Fort Lauderdale to Freeport, Bahamas where they had reservations at the ''Princess Resort''.  Lacking proper documentation however, they were stopped upon landing, and returned to Florida the same day and rented a red Kia Rio from Avis Rent-A-Car agency.
He was one of nine hijackers to open a SunTrust bank account with a cash deposit around June 2001, and on July 3 he was issued a Florida State Identification Card. Around this time, he also used his Saudi license to gain a Florida drivers' license bearing the same home address as Wail al-Shehri. (A Homing Inn in Boynton Beach, Florida|Boynton Beach).  Despite this, the 9/11 Commission claims that Suqami was the only hijacker to not have any US identification.
During the summer, Suqami and both Wail al-Shehri|Wail and Waleed al-Shehri purchased one month passes to a Boynton Beach gym owned by Jim Woolard. (Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi also reportedly trained at a gym owned by Woolard, in Delray Beach, Florida|Delray Beach.)
Known as ''Azmi'' during the preparations,Videotape of recorded will of Abdulaziz al-Omari and others Suqami was called one of the "muscle" hijackers, who were not expected to act as pilots. CIA director George Tenet later said that they "probably were told little more than that they were headed for a suicide mission inside the United States."
On September 10, 2001, Suqami shared a room at the Milner Hotel in Boston with three of the Flight 175 hijackers, Marwan al-Shehhi, Fayez Banihammad, and Mohand al-Shehri.
On the day of the attacks, Suqami checked in at the flight desk using his Saudi passport, and boarded American Airlines Flight 11.  At Logan International Airport, he was selected by CAPPS,
An FAA memo, circulated in February 2002, claimed that Suqami shot passenger Daniel M. Lewin (Seat 9B), co-founder of Akamai Technologies and a former member of the Israeli Sayeret Matkal, for attempting to foil the hijacking.
Suqami's passport was reportedly found by a passerby (identity unknown), reportedly in the vicinity of Vesey Street,
Suqami and fellow hijacker Ahmed al-Ghamdi were both tied to a foiled plot to blow up several tourist sites.
* 
'''Waleed Mohammed al-Shehri''' (, also transliterated as '''Alshehri''') (December 20, 1978http://www.globalsecurity.org/security/profiles/waleed_al-shehri.htm - September 11, 2001) was one of five hijackers of American Airlines Flight 11, which was crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center (1973-2001)|World Trade Center as part of the September 11 attacks in 2001.
Born in Saudi Arabia, Shehri had been a student until he accompanied his mentally ill brother to Medina. He later went to fight in Chechnya along with his brother Wail al-Shehri|Wail, but was redirected to Afghanistan, where he was recruited for the attacks.
Shehri arrived in the United States in April 2001 on a tourist visa. On September 11, 2001, Waleed along with his brother, Wail, boarded American Airlines Flight 11 and was one of five that helped hijack it, so that Mohamed Atta could fly the plane into the North Tower of the World Trade Center.
Studying to become a teacher like his brother, Wail al-Shehri|Wail, Waleed al-Shehri was from 'Asir province, a poor region in southwestern Saudi Arabia that borders Yemen.
Early media accounts said that Waleed had earned his pilot's certificate at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in 1997., Miami Herald, BY ANDRES VIGLUCCI AND MANNY GARCIA, Published Saturday, September 15, 2001 However, after a short investigation, Embry-Riddle was discovered to have not had any involvement in the flight training of the terrorists. A former student shared the same name as one of the hijackers, but the student, who is still alive, had no connections to al-Qaeda.
Waleed left his studies to accompany his brother's leave of absence after Wail complained of a mental symptom that had caused him grief, telling their father that he intended to seek aid from a religious healer in Medina.
The brothers arrived at the Al Farouq training camp in Afghanistan, where they met Ahmed al-Nami and Saeed al-Ghamdi. Before arriving at Al-Farouq, the four reportedly pledged themselves to jihad in Spring 2000, in a ceremony presided over by Wail, who had dubbed himself ''Abu Mossaeb al-Janubi'' after one of Muhammad's companions., Boston Globe, By Charles M. Sennott, Globe Staff, 3 March 2002
Waleed later served in the security forces at Kandahar International Airport with Saeed al-Ghamdi. After being selected for the operation, he trained with the other hijackers at al-Matar complex under Abu Turab al-Urduni.
Waleed returned to Saudi Arabia with his brother in the fall of 2000 so they could obtain clean passports and U.S. visas, which they did on 3 October and 24 October 2000, respectively.
Locals reported that he and his brother disappeared from Khamis Mushayt in the south of Saudi Arabia in December 2000.
In mid-November, 2000, the 9/11 Commission believes that three of the future muscle hijackers, Wail al Shehri, Waleed al Shehri, and Ahmed al-Nami, all of whom had obtained their U.S. visas in late October, traveled in a group from Saudi Arabia to Beirut and then onward to Iran where they could travel through to Afghanistan without getting their passports stamped. This probably followed their return to Saudi Arabia to get "clean" passports. An associate of a senior Hezbollah operative is thought to have been on the same flight, although this may have been a coincidence.
After training, he would have moved to a safehouse in Karachi, Pakistan before travelling to the United Arab Emirates (UAE). From the UAE, the muscle hijackers came to the U.S. between April and June 2001. Waleed may have arrived in the U.S. on 23 April 2001. Some sources report that Shehri "at times" stayed at lead hijacker Mohamed Atta's apartment in Hamburg, Germany at some period between 1998 and 2001., Washington Post Others place him with Zacarias Moussaoui in London.
Ramzi bin al-Shibh says that Osama bin Laden had given a message to Waleed al Shehri for conveyance to Mohamed Atta earlier that spring, indicating that bin Laden preferred to attack the White House instead of the Capitol.
Image:Waleed alshehri pic2.jpg|left|368px|thumb|Waleed al-Shehri in an undated photograph
On May 4, 2001, he applied for and received a Florida driver's license. The next day, he filled out a change-of-address form to receive a duplicate license.  Five other suspected hijackers also received duplicate Florida licenses in 2001. Some have speculated that this was to allow multiple persons to use the same identity.Lipka, Mitch. . ''South Florida Sun-Sentinel''. 28 September 2001. On 19 May 2001, Shehri and Satam al-Suqami flew from Fort Lauderdale, Florida|Fort Lauderdale to Freeport, Bahamas, where they had reservations at the Bahamas Princess Resort where Shehri and Suqami rented two cars, a black Buick Regal and a gray Ford Taurus. The two were turned away by Bahamian officials on arrival, however, because they lacked visas; they returned to Florida that same day. The 9/11 Commission felt that they likely took this trip to renew Suqami's immigration status, as Suqami's legal stay in the United States ended on 21 May 2001.
He was one of nine hijackers to open a SunTrust bank account with a cash deposit around June 2001. While living in Boynton, neighbors reported that he seemed to be an enthusiastic fan of the Florida Marlins., CBS News, 27 September 2001
On July 16, 2001, both Wail and Waleed were staying at a hotel in Salou, Spain|Salou, Spain where they were visited by Mohamed Atta., Newark-AP, September 27, 2001 On July 30, Shehri traveled alone from Fort Lauderdale to Boston.  He flew to San Francisco, California|San Francisco the next day, where he stayed one night before returning via Las Vegas.
According to librarian Kathleen Hensmen, Wail and Waleed al-Shehri used the Internet access at Delray Beach Public Library in August 2001, where they may have been looking at information on crop dusting; they reportedly left the library with a third Middle Eastern man thought to be Marwan al-Shehhi, who Hensmen said asked her for the name of a local restaurant. 
On September 5, 2001, Wail and Waleed al Shehri traveled together on Delta Air Lines Flight 2462 from Fort Lauderdale to Boston.
Waleed al-Shehri, his brother Wail, and Abdulaziz al-Omari arrived together at Logan Airport at 06:45 on the morning of September 11, 2001, having left their Ford Focus rental car in the airport parking facility.
By 7:40 a.m., all five hijackers were aboard the flight, which was scheduled to depart at 7:45 a.m. Wail and Waleed al-Shehri sat together in first class in seats 2A and 2B respectively.  The aircraft taxied away from Gate 26 and departed Logan International Airport at 7:59 a.m. from runway 4R after a 14-minute delay.
On September 23, 2001 ''BBC News'' reported that al-Shehri was "alive and well" in Casablanca, Morocco, and was talking to multiple media organizations;
Waleed and Wail were both reported to have been initially found, in error, by a Saudi newspaper editor as the sons of Ahmed Alshehri, a senior Saudi diplomat stationed in Bombay, India.  On September 16, 2001, the diplomat Ahmed Alshehri denied that he was the father of the two hijackers.  Wail claims he ''did'' attend Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Florida — but was the victim of mistaken identity, since he used that training to secure his current position with a Moroccan airline company. Saudi Arabia has confirmed his story, and suggested he was the victim of identity theft.
Muhammad Ali al-Shehri, the Shehri brothers' true father, was identified prior to September 17, 2001, and told Arab News that he had not heard from his sons in ten months prior to September 2001., By Mutlaq Al-Buqami, Arab News Staff, 17 September 2001 An ''ABC News'' story in March 2002 repeated this, and during a report entitled "A Saudi Apology" for ''Dateline NBC'' on August 25, 2002, ''NBC'' reporter John Hockenberry traveled to 'Asir, where he interviewed the third brother, Salah, who agreed that his two brothers were dead and claimed they had been "brainwashed".
Furthermore, another article explains that the pilot who lives in Casablanca was named Walid al-Shri (not Waleed M. al-Shehri) and that much of the ''BBC'' information regarding "alive" hijackers was incorrect according to the same sources used by ''BBC''., Spiegel Online, September 8, 2003 In September 2007, a video recording of his last testament was released to mark the 6th anniversary of the attacks.
* 
* "; this video is about 15 minutes; it requires a Windows Media Player
'''Abdulaziz al-Omari''' ( - September 11, 2001) was a Saudi airport security guard and Imam, best known for being one of five hijackers of American Airlines Flight 11 as part of the September 11 attacks.
Omari arrived in the United States in June 2001, on a tourist visa, obtained through the Visa Express program. On September 11, 2001, Omari boarded American Airlines Flight 11 and assisted in the hijacking of the plane, which was crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center (1973-2001)|World Trade Center, as part of the coordinated attacks.
Little is known about al-Omari's life, and it is unclear whether some information refers to Omari or another person by that name. He has used birth date May 28, 1979.
He is alleged to have often served as an Imam at his mosque in Saudi Arabia and is believed by American authorities to have been a student of a Saudi cleric named Sulaiman Al-Alwan, whose mosque is located in Al-Qassim Province.
According to Walid bin 'Attash|Tawfiq bin Attash, Omari was one of a group of future hijackers who provided security at Kandahar airport after their basic training at an al-Qaeda camp. During the Kuala Lumpur al-Qaeda Summit|2000 Al Qaeda Summit in Kuala Lumpur, American authorities claim that immigration records show that a person named Abdulaziz al-Omari was visiting the country, although they say they are not sure that this was the same person.
In the autumn of 2001, after the September 11 attacks, al Jazeera television broadcast a tape they claim was made by Omari. The speaker made a farewell suicide video. In it, he reads "I am writing this with my full conscience and I am writing this in expectation of the end, which is near. . . God praise everybody who trained and helped me, namely the leader Sheikh Osama bin Laden."
According to FBI director Robert Mueller and the 9/11 Commission, Omari entered the United States through a Dubai flight on June 29, 2001, with Salem al-Hazmi, landing in New York. He had used the controversial Visa Express program to gain entry. He apparently stayed with several other hijackers in Paterson, New Jersey, before moving to his own place at 4032 57th Terrace, Vero Beach, Florida. On his rental agreement form for that house, Omari gave two license-plates authorized to park in his space, one of which was registered to Atta. ABC
Omari obtained a fake United States ID card from All Services Plus in Passaic County, New Jersey, which was in the business of selling fake documents, including another to Khalid al-Mihdhar.
Image:Atta in airport.jpg|thumb|right|160px|Atta (blue shirt) and Omari at Portland International Jetport on 9/11
On September 10, 2001, Mohamed Atta picked up Omari from the Milner Hotel in Boston, Massachusetts, and the two drove Vehicles of the hijackers in the September 11 attacks#Mohamed Atta's Nissan Altima|their rented Nissan to a Comfort Inn in Portland, Maine|South Portland, Maine, where they spent the night in room 232. It was initially reported that Adnan and Ameer Bukhari were the two hijackers who had rented and driven the car. People's Daily
In the early hours of September 11, they boarded a commuter flight back to Boston to connect to American Airlines Flight 11. American 11 was hijacked 15 minutes after the flight departed by Omari and four other hijackers, which allowed trained pilot Mohamed Atta to crash the Boeing 767 into the North Tower of the World Trade Center as part of an attack that killed thousands of people.
Controversy over Omari's identity erupted shortly after the attacks. At first, the FBI had named Abdul Rahman al-Omari, a pilot for Saudi Arabian Airlines, as the pilot of Flight 11. It was quickly shown that this person was still alive, and the FBI issued an apology. It was also quickly determined that Mohamed Atta was the pilot among the hijackers. The FBI then named Abdulaziz al-Omari as a hijacker.
A man with the same name as those given by the FBI turned up alive in Saudi Arabia, saying that he had studied at the University of Denver and his passport was stolen there in 1995. The name, origin, birth date, and occupation were released by the FBI, but the picture was not of him. "I couldn't believe it when the FBI put me on their list", he said. "They gave my name and my date of birth, but I am not a suicide bomber. I am here. I am alive. I have no idea how to fly a plane. I had nothing to do with this."
* PENTTBOM
* 
*  (Article which reports that the Saudi Arabian Airlines pilot named Omari was not involved with the terrorist attacks)
'''Mohand Muhammed Fayiz al-Shehri''' (; also transliterated as '''Alshehri''') (August 17, 1979 - September 11, 2001) was one of five hijackers aboard United Airlines Flight 175 as part of the September 11 attacks.
A Saudi, Shehri was a former college student who dropped out after failing his courses. He later left his home to fight in Chechnya in 2000, but was probably diverted to Al-Qaeda training camps in Afghanistan. It was during that time that he would be chosen to take part in the attacks in America. He received a U.S. student visa in October 2000.
Shehri arrived in the United States in May 2001. On September 11, 2001, Shehri boarded United Airlines Flight 175 and assisted in its hijacking so that it could be flown into the South Tower of the World Trade Center (1973-2001)|World Trade Center.
Shehri was also known under the aliases "Mohammed al-Shehhi" and "Mohald al-Shehri".
Born 1979, Shehri was one of five hijackers to come from the 'Asir province of Saudi Arabia, the others being Ahmed al-Nami, Abdulaziz al-Omari and Waleed al-Shehri|Waleed and Wail al-Shehri, two brothers unrelated to Mohand. 
Image:MOhandsVisaApplication.jpg|thumb|left|130px|Visa Application
According to Arab News, Shehri went to fight in Chechnya in early 2000, where he may have met Hamza al-Ghamdi. On October 23, Mohand applied for a US B-1/B-2 Visa|B-1/B-2 visa in Jeddah. Other than an error on his school's address the application was not suspicious and he was not interviewed before being granted the visa.
Hamza and Mohand flew together from Iran into Kuwait that October.9/11 Commission Report, p. 240.  Three months later the pair rented a post office box in Delray Beach, Florida, where someone with the same name signed up to use the public library's computers. ''St. Petersburg Times''. September 1, 2002. According to FBI director Robert Mueller and the 9/11 Commission, however, Shehri did not first enter the United States until a London or Dubai flight on May 28 with Hamza and Abdulaziz al-Omari.
He was one of nine hijackers to open a SunTrust bank account with a cash deposit around June 2001, and on July 2 gained a Florida State ID Card.  
Mohand occasionally trained on simulators at the FlightSafety Aviation School in Vero Beach, Florida together with Abdulaziz al-Omari and Saeed al-Ghamdi.
Fayez Banihammad purchased both his and Mohand's one-way first class tickets for United Airlines Flight 175 online on August 27 or 29, charging the $4,464.50 to a Visa Inc.|Visa card from Mustafa al Hawsawi, listing their addresses both as a Mail Boxes Etc. in Delray Beach, Florida|Delray Beach. This was not the same postal box used by Hamza al-Ghamdi|Hamza and Ahmed al-Ghamdi, who purchased their tickets for the same flight a day later, with another Mailboxes Etc. postal box in Delray Beach, although both groups listed the same phone number.
On September 7 he flew from Fort Lauderdale, Florida|Fort Lauderdale to Newark, New Jersey with Hamza al-Ghamdi on $139.75 tickets purchased from the Mile High Travel agency in Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, Florida|Lauderdale-by-the-Sea.
On September 10, 2001, he shared a room with four hijackers; Fayez Banihammad, Marwan al-Shehhi and Satam al-Suqami at the Milner Hotel in Boston, Massachusetts.
On September 11, Shehri boarded Flight 175, he sat adjacent to Banihammad. About a half an hour into the flight, the plane was hijacked and it was flown into the south tower of the World Trade Center.
* 
'''Ahmed Salah Said al-Ghamdi''' (, also transliterated as '''Alghamdi''') (July 2, 1979http://www.globalsecurity.org/security/profiles/ahmed_al-ghamdi.htm - September 11, 2001) was one of five hijackers of United Airlines Flight 175 as part of the September 11 attacks.Unless otherwise sourced, statements in this article come primarily from the 9/11 Commission Report.National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (Richard Ben-Veniste|Ben-Veniste, Richard; Fred F. Fielding|Fielding, Fred F.; Gorelick, Jamie; Gorton, Slade; Lee H. Hamilton|Hamilton, Lee H.; Kean, Thomas; Kerrey, Bob; John F. Lehman|Lehman, John F.; Timothy J. Roemer|Roemer, Timothy J.; James R. Thompson|Thompson, James R.) (2004). ''The 9/11 Commission Report: Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States.'' W.W. Norton & Company. ISBN 0-393-32671-3, also available 
Ghamdi was born in Saudi Arabia in 1979. He dropped out of school to fight in Chechnya and was probably sent to train in Al-Qaeda camps in Afghanistan where he would be chosen by Osama bin Laden to participate in the terrorist attacks in America.
He arrived in the United States in May 2001 on a tourist visa and helped plan out how the attacks would take place. On September 11, 2001, he boarded United Airlines Flight 175 and assisted in the hijacking of the plane so that Marwan al-Shehhi could crash it into the South Tower of the World Trade Center (1973-2001)|World Trade Center, as part of the coordinated attacks.
An Imam,Videotape of recorded will of Abdulaziz al-Omari and others Ghamdi was from the al Bahah Province of Saudi Arabia, a province in the south west of Saudi Arabia. It is the capital of Al Bahah Province nestled between the resorts of Mecca and Abha, Al Bahah is one of the Kingdom's prime tourist attractions. Ghamdi shared the same tribal affiliation with fellow hijackers Saeed al-Ghamdi, Hamza al-Ghamdi, and Ahmed al-Haznawi. This group is noted as being some of the more religiously observant of the hijackers, and they are thought to have met each other some time in 1999.
Known as ''al-Jaraah al-Ghamdi'' during the preparations, the only one of the hijackers to use a variation on his own name, Ghamdi quit school to fight in Chechnya against the Russians in 2000, and received a US Visa on September 3 of that year. In November, both he and Salem al-Hazmi flew to Beirut, though on separate flights and at different times. Ghamdi flew on the same flight as a senior Hezbollah operative, although the 9/11 Commission could find no evidence that either knew the other. His family claims to have last seen him in December.
In March 2001, Ghamdi is reported to have met with a Jordanian who has been charged with providing false identification to at least 50 illegal aliens. Hijackers Majed Moqed, Hani Hanjour, and Nawaf al-Hazmi are reported to have met with him at the same time.''Associated Press'' March 6, 2002. "Four Hijackers Stayed at CT Motel" Inexplicably, this is more than a month before Ghamdi first arrived in the United States, according to the FBI and the 9/11 Commission.
On May 2, Ghamdi arrived in the U.S. with fellow-hijacker Moqed, on a F-1 visa|student visa. He listed the Naval Air Station in Pensacola, Florida as his permanent address on his driver's license. He and Moqed moved in with Hani Hanjour and Nawaf al-Hazmi in Falls Church, Virginia. All four later moved into an apartment in Paterson, New Jersey.
He called his parents in July 2001, but did not mention being in the United States.
Hamza al-Ghamdi purchased Ahmed's ticket online for United Airlines Flight 175 on August 29 or August 30, after buying his own.  He listed a Mail Boxes Etc. address for Ahmed.
Hamza and Ahmed al-Ghamdi stayed at the Charles Hotel in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  On September 8 they checked out of the hotel, and moved into the Days Hotel on Soldiers Field Road in Brighton, Massachusetts|Brighton where they remained up until the attacks.Mueller, Robert S., III (09/26/02). , ''Joint Investigation Into September 11th: Closed Hearing''.
On the morning of September 11, 2001, Ahmed left the hotel with Hamza, the two of them sharing a taxicab to get to Logan International Airport.  There, Ghamdi showed his Virginia ID Card as identification, and boarded Flight 175 where he sat the furthest back of the hijackers, in seat 9D, helped to hijack it, and assisted as the plane crashed into the World Trade Center (1973-2001)|World Trade Center.
* 
* http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/1559151.stm
'''Khalid Muhammad Abdallah al-Mihdhar''' (). - September 11, 2001) was one of five hijackers of American Airlines Flight 77, which was flown into the Pentagon as part of the September 11 attacks.
Mihdhar was born in Saudi Arabia and fought in the Bosnian War during the 1990s. In early 1999, he traveled to Afghanistan where, as an experienced and respected jihadist, he was selected by Osama bin Laden to participate in the attacks. Mihdhar arrived in California with fellow hijacker Nawaf al-Hazmi in January 2000, after traveling to Malaysia for the Kuala Lumpur al-Qaeda Summit. At this point, the CIA was aware of Mihdhar, and he was photographed in Malaysia with another al-Qaeda member who was involved in the USS Cole bombing|USS ''Cole'' bombing. The CIA did not inform the FBI when it learned that Mihdhar and Hazmi had entered the United States, and Mihdhar was not placed on any watchlists until late August 2001.
Upon arriving in San Diego, California, Mihdhar and Hazmi were to train as pilots, but spoke English poorly and did not do well with flight lessons. In June 2000, Mihdhar left the United States for Yemen, leaving Hazmi behind in San Diego. Mihdhar spent some time in Afghanistan in early 2001 and returned to the United States in early July 2001. He stayed in New Jersey in July and August, before arriving in the Washington, D.C. area at the beginning of September.
On the morning of September 11, 2001, Mihdhar boarded American Airlines Flight 77, which was hijacked approximately 30 minutes after take off. The plane was deliberately crashed into the Pentagon, killing all 64 people aboard the flight, along with 125 on the ground.
Khalid al-Mihdhar was born on May 16, 1975 in Mecca, Saudi Arabia to a prominent family, related to the Quraysh tribe of Mecca.Videotape of recorded will of Abdulaziz al-Omari and others  Little is known about his life before the age of 20, when he and childhood friend Nawaf al-Hazmi went to Bosnia to fight with the mujahideen in the Bosnian War.9/11 Commission Report, Chapter 5.2, pp. 153-159McDermott (2005), p. 191  After the war, Mihdhar and Hazmi went to Afghanistan where they fought alongside the Taliban against the Northern Alliance,Wright (2006), p. 309 and al-Qaeda would later dub Nawaf his "second in command".  In 1997, Mihdhar told his family that he was leaving to fight in Chechnya,
In the late 1990s, Mihdhar married Hoda al-Hada, who was the sister of a comrade from Yemen, and they had two daughters.  Through marriage, Mihdhar was related to a number of individuals involved with al-Qaeda in some way. Mihdhar's father-in-law, Ahmad Mohammad Ali al-Hada, helped facilitate al-Qaeda communications in Yemen,
In Spring 1999, al-Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden committed to support the 9/11 attacks plot, which was largely organized by prominent al-Qaeda member Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. Mihdhar and Hazmi were among the first group of participants selected for the operation, along with Walid bin 'Attash|Tawfiq bin Attash and Abu Bara al Yemeni, al-Qaeda members from Yemen.  Mihdhar, who had spent time in al-Qaeda camps in the 1990s, was known and highly regarded by Bin Laden.  Mihdhar was so eager to participate in jihad operations in the United States that he had already obtained a one-year B-1 visa|B-1/B-2 (tourist/business) multiple-entry visa from the consulate in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia on April 7, 1999, one day after obtaining a new passport.9/11 and Terrorist Travel, pp. 9-10  Mihdhar listed the Los Angeles Sheraton as his intended destination.FBI Hijackers' Timeline, p. 40
Once selected, Mihdhar and Hazmi were sent to the Mes Aynak training camp in Afghanistan. In late 1999, Hazmi, Attash and Yemeni went to Karachi, Pakistan to see Mohammed, who instructed them on Western culture and travel; however, Mihdhar did not go to Karachi, instead returning to Yemen. He was known as ''Sinaan'' during the preparations.
The CIA was aware of Mihdhar and Hazmi's involvement with al-Qaeda, having been informed by Saudi intelligence during a 1999 meeting in Riyadh.  Based on information uncovered by the FBI in the 1998 United States embassy bombings case, the National Security Agency (NSA) began tracking the communications of Hada, Mihdhar's father-in-law. In late 1999, the NSA informed the CIA of an upcoming meeting in Malaysia, which Hada mentioned would involve "Khalid", "Nawaf", and "Salem", who was Hazmi's younger brother, Salem al-Hazmi.
On January 4, 2000, Mihdhar left Yemen and flew to Dubai, United Arab Emirates, where he spent the night.  The CIA broke into his hotel room and photocopied his passport, which gave them his full name, birth information and passport number for the first time, and alerted them that he held an entry visa to the United States.
On January 5, 2000, Mihdhar traveled to Kuala Lumpur, where he joined Hazmi, Attash and Yemeni, who were all arriving from Pakistan.  Hamburg cell member Ramzi bin al-Shibh was also at the summit, and Mohammed possibly attended.Fouda and Fielding (2003), pp. 129-130 The group was in Malaysia to meet with Hambali, the leader of Jemaah Islamiyah, an Asian al-Qaeda affiliate.  During the Kuala Lumpur al-Qaeda Summit, many key details of the 9/11 attacks may have been arranged. At the time, the attacks plot had an additional component involving hijacking aircraft in Asia, as well as in the United States.  Attash and Yemeni were slated for this part of the plot, however, it was later canceled by Bin Laden for being too difficult to coordinate with United States operations.
In Malaysia, the group stayed with Yazid Sufaat, a local Jemaah Islamiyah member, who provided accommodation at Hambali's request.  Both Mihdhar and Hazmi were secretly photographed at the meeting by Malaysian authorities, whom the CIA had asked to provide surveillance.  The Malaysians reported that Mihdhar spoke at length with Attash, and he met with Fahd al-Quso and others who were later involved in the USS Cole bombing|USS ''Cole'' bombing.  After the meeting, Mihdhar and Hazmi traveled to Bangkok, Thailand on January 8 and left a week later on January 15 for the United States.FBI Hijackers' Timeline, p. 52
Image:Parkwood apts.jpg|thumb|right|Parkwood Apartments complex, located in the Clairemont, San Diego, California|Clairemont Mesa section of San Diego, where Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi lived from February until the end of May 2000
On January 15, 2000, Mihdhar and Hazmi arrived at Los Angeles International Airport from Bangkok and were admitted as tourists for a period of six months.9/11 and Terror Travel, p. 10  Immediately after entering the country, Mihdhar and Hazmi met Omar al-Bayoumi in an airport restaurant. Bayoumi claimed he was merely being charitable in assisting the two seemingly out-of-place Muslims with moving to San Diego, where he helped them find an apartment near his own, co-signed their lease, and gave them $1,500 to help pay their rent.
While in San Diego, witnesses told the FBI he and Hazmi had a close relationship with Anwar Al Awlaki, an imam who served as their spiritual advisor.  Authorities say the two regularly attended the Masjid Ar-Ribat al-Islami mosque Awlaki led in San Diego, and Awlaki had many closed-door meetings with them, which led investigators to believe Awlaki knew about the 9/11 attacks in advance.
In early February 2000, Mihdhar and Hazmi rented an apartment at the Parkwood Apartments complex in the Clairemont, San Diego, California|Clairemont Mesa area of San Diego, and Mihdhar purchased a used 1988 Toyota Corolla.FBI Hijackers' Timeline, pp. 54-55  Neighbors thought that Mihdhar and Hazmi were odd because months passed without the men getting any furniture, and they slept on mattresses on the floor, yet they carried briefcases, were frequently on their mobile phones, and were occasionally picked up by a limousine.Aust (2002), pp. 17-18 Those who met Mihdhar in San Diego described him as "dark and brooding, with a disdain for American culture".Fouda and Fielding (2003), p. 136  Neighbors also said that the pair constantly played flight simulator games.
Mihdhar and Hazmi took flight lessons on May 5, 2000 at the Sorbi Flying Club in San Diego, with Mihdhar flying an aircraft for 42 minutes.  They took additional lessons on May 10;FBI Hijackers' Timeline, pp. 63-64 however, with poor English skills, they did not do well with flight lessons.  Mihdhar and Hazmi raised some suspicion when they offered extra money to their flight instructor, Richard Garza, if he would train them to fly jets. Garza refused the offer but did not report them to authorities.  After the 9/11 attacks, Garza described the two men as "impatient students" who "wanted to learn to fly jets, specifically Boeings".
Mihdhar and Hazmi moved out of the Parkwood Apartments at the end of May 2000, and Mihdhar transferred registration for the Toyota Corolla to Hazmi.FBI Hijackers' Timeline, p. 67  On June 10, 2000, Mihdhar left the United States and returned to Yemen to visit his wife, against the wishes of Mohammed who wanted him to remain in the United States to help Hazmi adapt.9/11 and Terror Travel, p. 11s:Substitution for the Testimony of KSM|Substitution for the Testimony of KSM at the trial of Zacarias Moussaoui  Mohammed was so angered by this that he decided to remove Mihdhar from the 9/11 plot, but he was overruled by Bin Laden. Mihdhar remained part of the plot as a muscle hijacker, who would help take over the aircraft.9/11 Commission Report, Chapter 7.2 - The Attack Looms, First Arrivals in California, pp. 215-222  On October 12, 2000, the USS Cole (DDG-67)|USS ''Cole'' was bombed by a small boat laden with explosives. After the bombing, Yemeni Prime Minister Abdul Karim al-Iryani reported that Mihdhar had been one of the key planners of the attack and had been in the country at the time of the attacks.Smith (2005), p. 60  In late 2000, Mihdhar was back in Saudi Arabia, staying with a cousin in Mecca.
In February 2001, Mihdhar returned to Afghanistan for several months, possibly entering across the Iranian border after a flight from Syria. FBI director Robert Mueller later stated his belief that Mihdhar served as the coordinator and organizer for the muscle hijackers.  He was the last of the muscle hijackers to return to the United States.  On June 10, he returned to Saudi Arabia for a month, where he applied to re-enter the United States through the Visa Express program, indicating that he intended to stay at a Marriott hotel in New York City.9/11 Commission Report, Chapter 7.3 - The Attack Looms, Assembling the Teams, pp. 231-240  On his visa application, Mihdhar falsely stated that he had never previously traveled to the United States.9/11 and Terror Travel, pp. 24-25
On July 4, Mihdhar returned to the United States, arriving at New York City's John F. Kennedy International Airport, using a new passport obtained the previous month.9/11 and Terror Travel, p. 27  A digital copy of one of Mihdhar's passports was later recovered during a search of an al-Qaeda safe house in Afghanistan, which held indicators, such as fake or altered passport stamps, that Mihdhar was a member of a known terrorist group.9/11 and Terror Travel, p. 42  At the time when Mihdhar was admitted to the United States, immigration inspectors had not been trained to look for such indicators.  Upon arriving, Mihdhar did not check into the Marriott but instead spent a night at another hotel in the city.
Mihdhar bought a fake ID on July 10 from All Services Plus in Passaic County, New Jersey, which was in the business of selling counterfeit documents, including another ID to Flight 11 hijacker Abdulaziz al-Omari.9/11 and Terror Travel, p. 29
In August 2001, Mihdhar and Hazmi made several visits to the library at William Paterson University in Wayne, New Jersey, where they used computers to look up travel information and book flights.  Mihdhar and Moqed were able to make flight reservations for Flight 77 on August 25, using Moqed's credit card; however, the transaction did not fully go through because the billing address and the shipment address for the tickets did not match.FBI Hijackers' Timeline, p. 235
On August 31, Mihdhar closed an account at Hudson United Bank in New Jersey, having opened the account when he arrived in July, and was with Hanjour when he made a withdrawal from an ATM in Paterson, New Jersey|Paterson on September 1.  The next day, Mihdhar, Moqed and Hanjour traveled to Maryland, where they stayed at budget motels in Laurel, Maryland|Laurel.  Mihdhar was among the muscle hijackers who worked out at a Gold's Gym in Greenbelt, Maryland|Greenbelt in early September.FBI Hijackers' Timeline, p. 255  On September 5, Mihdhar and Moqed went to the American Airlines ticket counter at Baltimore-Washington International Airport to pick up their tickets for Flight 77, paying $2,300 in cash.
Mihdhar was placed on a CIA watchlist on August 21, 2001, and a note was sent on August 23 to the Department of State and the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) suggesting that Mihdhar and Hazmi be added to their watchlists.  The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) was not notified about the two men.  On August 23, the CIA informed the FBI that Mihdhar had obtained a U.S. visa in Jeddah. The FBI headquarters received a copy of the Visa Express application from the Jeddah embassy on August 24, showing the New York Marriott as Mihdhar's destination.
On August 28, the FBI New York field office requested that a criminal case be opened to determine whether Mihdhar was still in the United States, but the request was refused.
The FBI contacted Marriott on August 30, requesting that they check guest records, and on September 5, they reported that no Marriott hotels had any record of Mihdhar checking in.  The day before the attacks, Robert Fuller of the New York office requested that the Los Angeles FBI office check all local Sheraton Hotels, as well as Lufthansa and United Airlines bookings, because those were the two airlines Mihdhar had used to enter the country.  Neither the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network nor the FBI's Financial Review Group, which have access to credit card and other private financial records, were notified about Mihdhar prior to September 11.
Regarding the  CIA's refusal to inform the FBI about Mihdhar and Hazmi, author Lawrence Wright suggests the CIA wanted to protect its turf and was concerned about giving sensitive intelligence to FBI Agent John P. O'Neill, who Alec Station chief Michael Scheuer described as duplicitous.  Wright also speculates that the CIA may have been protecting intelligence operations overseas, and might have been eying Mihdhar and Hazmi as recruitment targets to obtain intelligence on al-Qaeda, although the CIA was not authorized to operate in the United States and might have been leaving them for Saudi intelligence to recruit.Wright (2006), pp. 310-315
Image:DM-SD-02-03886.JPEG|thumb|right|The Pentagon, minutes after American Airlines Flight 77, crashed into it
On September 10, 2001, Mihdhar and the other hijackers checked into the Marriott Residence Inn in Herndon, Virginia, near Washington Dulles International Airport.FBI Hijackers' Timeline, p. 284  Saleh Ibn Abdul Rahman Hussayen, a prominent Saudi government official, was staying at the same hotel that night, although there is no evidence that they met or knew of each other's presence.
At 06:22 on September 11, 2001, the group checked out of the hotel and headed to Dulles airport.FBI Hijackers' Timeline, p. 290  At 07:15, Mihdhar and Moqed checked in at the American Airlines ticket counter9/11 Commission Report, Chapter 1.1 (2004), pp. 1-13 and arrived at the passenger security checkpoint at 07:20.FBI Hijackers' Timeline, p. 288  Both men set off the metal detector and were put through secondary screening.  Security video footage later released shows that Moqed was wanded, but the screener did not identify what set off the alarm, and both Moqed and Mihdhar were able to proceed without further hindrance.  By 07:50, Mihdhar and the other hijackers, carrying knives and box cutters, had made it through the airport security checkpoint and boarded Flight 77 to Los Angeles. Mihdhar was seated in seat 12B, next to Moqed.
The flight was scheduled to depart from Gate D26 at 08:10 but was delayed by 10 minutes.  The last routine radio communication from the plane to air traffic control occurred at 08:50:51.
After the attacks, the identification of Mihdhar was one of the first links suggesting that Bin Laden had played a role in their organization, since Mihdhar had been seen at the Malaysian conference speaking to Bin Laden's associates.  The FBI interrogated Quso, who was arrested following the USS ''Cole'' bombing and in custody in Yemen.  Quso was able to identify Mihdhar, Hazmi and Attash in photos provided by the FBI, and he also knew Marwan al-Shehhi, a hijacker aboard United Airlines Flight 175.  From Quso, the FBI was able to establish an al-Qaeda link to the attacks.Wright (2006), pp. 362-637
On September 12, 2001, the Toyota Corolla purchased by Mihdhar was found in Dulles International Airport's hourly parking lot. Inside the vehicle, authorities found a letter written by Mohamed Atta, a hijacker aboard American Airlines Flight 11; maps of Washington, D.C. and New York City; a cashier's check made out to a Phoenix, Arizona flight school; four drawings of a Boeing 757 cockpit; a box cutter; and a page with notes and phone numbers, which contained evidence that led investigators to San Diego.
On September 19, 2001, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) distributed a special alert that listed Mihdhar as still alive,
In 2005, Army Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer and Member of Congress#Bicameral legislature|Congressman Curt Weldon alleged that the Defense Department data mining project Able Danger identified Mihdhar, Hazmi, Shehhi and Atta as members of a Brooklyn-based al-Qaeda cell in early 2000.
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
'''Nawaf Muhammed Salim al-Hazmi''' (; also known as ''Rabia al-Makki'')National Commission on Terrorist Attacks, 9/11 Commission, p. 166 (August 9, 1976 - September 11, 2001) was one of five hijackers of American Airlines Flight 77, which they crashed into the Pentagon as part of the September 11 attacks in the United States.
Hazmi and a longtime friend, Khalid al-Mihdhar, left their homes in Saudi Arabia in 1995 to fight for Muslims in the Bosnian War. Hazmi later traveled to Afghanistan to fight with the Taliban against the Afghan Northern Alliance. He returned to Saudi Arabia in early 1999.
Already long time affiliates of Al-Qaeda with extensive fighting experience, Hazmi and Mihdhar were chosen by Osama bin Laden for an ambitious terrorist plot to pilot commercial airlines into designated targets in the United States. Hazmi and Mihdhar both obtained B-1/B-2 Visa|US tourist visas in April 1999. Hazmi trained in an Al-Qaeda training camp in the fall of 1999. He traveled to Malaysia for the Kuala Lumpur al-Qaeda Summit|2000 Al-Qaeda Summit.
Hazmi arrived in Los Angeles, California from Bangkok, Thailand, on January 15, 2000, with Khalid al-Mihdhar. The two settled in San Diego, staying at the Parkwood Apartments until May 2000. While in San Diego, they attended its mosque, led by Anwar al-Awlaki. The two took flying lessons during that month in San Diego. Due to Hazmi and Mihdhar's poor English skills, they did not perform well during their flight lessons and their flight instructor regarded them as suspicious.
Mihdhar left Hazmi in California for Yemen in June 2000. Hazmi stayed in California until he met up with Hani Hanjour in December 2000, and they both traveled to Phoenix, Arizona. They later moved to Falls Church, Virginia in April 2001, where the rest of the hijackers began to join them. Hazmi met frequently with Mohamed Atta, the ringleader of the attacks, during the summer of 2001.
The CIA reportedly received Hazmi's name on a list of 19 persons suspected of planning an attack in the near future. Hazmi was one of the four names on the list who were known for certain. A search for Hazmi and other suspected terrorists commenced, but they were not located until after the attacks.
On September 10, 2001, Hazmi, along with Mihdhar and Hanjour checked into a hotel in Herndon, Virginia. The next morning, Hazmi and four other terrorists, boarded American Airlines Flight 77 at Dulles Airport and hijacked the plane so that Hani Hanjour could pilot and crash the plane into the Pentagon as part of the September 11 attacks. The crash killed all 64 passengers aboard the aircraft and 125 in the Pentagon. Hazmi was initially dismissed as a "muscle hijacker" following the attacks, but was later revealed to have played a larger role in the operational planning than previously believed., ''Los Angeles Times,'' 27 September 2002 His younger brother, Salem al-Hazmi, was another of the hijackers aboard the same flight.
Nawaf was born in Mecca in Saudi Arabia to Muhammad Salim al-Hazmi, a grocer. He traveled to Afghanistan as a teenager in 1993.  CNN's preliminary report following the attacks claimed that an unnamed acquaintance relayed ''"He told me once that his father had tried to kill him when he was a child. He never told me why, but he had a long knife scar on his forearm"'', and claimed that his older brother was a police chief in Jizan.
In 1995, he and his childhood friend, Khalid al-Mihdhar, joined a group that went to fight alongside Bosnian Muslims in the Bosnian War.
Osama bin Laden held Hazmi and Mihdhar in high respect, with their experience fighting during the 1990s in Bosnia and elsewhere. Al-Qaeda later referred to Hazmi as Mihdhar's "Second-in-command".Videotape of recorded will of Abdulaziz al-Omari and others  When Bin Laden committed to the "planes operation" plot in spring 1999, he personally selected Hazmi and Mihdhar to be involved in the plot as pilot hijackers.  In addition to Hazmi and Mihdhar, two Yemenis were selected for a southeast Asia component of the plot, which was later scrapped for being too difficult to coordinate with the operations in the United States.  Known as ''Rabi'ah al-Makki'' during the preparations, Hazmi had been so eager to participate in operations within the United States, he already had a US visa when Bin Laden selected him.  Hazmi obtained a B-1/B-2 Visa|B-1/B-2 tourist visa on April 3, 1999 from the US consulate in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, using a new passport he acquired a few weeks earlier.  Hazmi's passport did have indicators of Al-Qaeda association, but immigration inspectors were not trained to look for those.
In the autumn of 1999, these four attended the Mes Aynak training camp in Afghanistan, which provided advanced training.  Hazmi went with the two Yemenis, Tawfiq bin Attash (Khallad) and Abu Bara al Yemeni, to Karachi, Pakistan where Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the plot's coordinator, instructed him on western culture, travel, as well as taught some basic English phrases.  Mihdhar did not go with him to Karachi, but instead left for Yemen.  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed then sent Hazmi and the other men to Malaysia for a meeting.  Before leaving for Malaysia, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed doctored Hazmi's Saudi passport in order to conceal his travel to Pakistan and Afghanistan, and make it appear that Hazmi had come to Malaysia from Saudi Arabia via Dubai.
After the attacks, the Associated Press would re-publish a "bizarre" story by the ''Cody, Wyoming#Media|Cody Enterprise'' that quoted witnesses stating that Nawaf entered the United States during the autumn of 1999, crossing along the Canada-US border as one of two men delivering skylights to the local high school in Cody, Wyoming.  Leaving the city 45 minutes later with the remaining cardboard boxes, the men allegedly asked "how to get to Florida.", The Associated Press, October 23, 2001
Based on information uncovered by the FBI in the 1998 United States embassy bombings case, the National Security Agency (NSA) began tracking the communications of Mihdhar's father-in-law Ahmad Muhammad Ali al-Hada, who was facilitating al-Qaeda communications, in 1999. Authorities also became aware of Hazmi, as a friend and associate of Mihdhar.  Saudi Intelligence was also aware that Hazmi was associated with Al-Qaeda, and associated with the 1998 African embassy bombings and attempts to smuggle arms into the kingdom in 1997.  He also said that he revealed this to the CIA, saying "What we told them was these people were on our watch list from previous activities of al-Qaeda" The CIA strongly denies having received any such warning.
In late 1999 the NSA informed the CIA of an upcoming meeting in Malaysia, which Hada mentioned would involve "Khalid", "Nawaf", and "Salem".  In Malaysia, the group stayed with Yazid Sufaat, a local member of Jemaah Islamiyah, who provided accommodations at request of Hambali.  Both Mihdhar and Hazmi were secretly photographed at the meeting by Malaysian authorities, who provided surveillance at the request of the CIA.  Malaysian authorities reported that Mihdhar spoke at length with Tawfiq bin Attash, one of the Yemenis, and others who were later involved in the USS Cole bombing.  Hazmi and Mihdhar also met with Fahd al-Quso, who was later involved in the USS Cole bombing.  After the meeting, Mihdhar and Hazmi traveled to Bangkok in Thailand on January 8, and left a week later on January 15 to travel to the United States.
Image:Parkwood apts.jpg|thumb|right|Between February and May 2000, Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi lived at the Parkwood Apartments complex in Clairemont, San Diego, California|Clairemont Mesa, San Diego.
On January 15, 2000, Hazmi and Mihdhar arrived together at Los Angeles International Airport from Bangkok, and were admitted for a six-month period.  Immediately after entering the country, Nawaf and Mihdhar met Omar al-Bayoumi in an airport restaurant. Bayoumi claims he was merely being charitable in helping the two seemingly out-of-place Muslims to move to San Diego where he helped them find an apartment near his own, co-signed their lease, and gave them $1500 to help pay their rent.
While in San Diego, witnesses told the FBI he and Mindhar had a close relationship with Anwar Al Awlaki.
In the beginning of February 2000, Mihdhar and Hazmi rented an apartment at the Parkwood Apartments, a 175-unit complex in the Clairemont, San Diego, California|Clairemont Mesa section of San Diego, near the Balboa Drive Mosque.  In February, Mihdhar purchased a used 1988 Toyota Corolla.  Residents said a total of four men spent time together at Parkwood, playing in the pool like children.
On April 4, 2000, Hazmi took a one-hour introductory flight lesson at the National Air College in San Diego.  Both Mihdhar and Hazmi took flight lessons in May 2000 at the Sorbi Flying Club, located at Montgomery Field in San Diego.  On May 5, Hazmi and Mihdhar took a lesson for one hour, and additional lessons on May 10 at the Sorbi Flying Club, with Hazmi flying an aircraft for 30 minutes.  However, their English skills were very poor, and they did not do well with flight lessons.  The first day that they showed up, they told instructors that they wanted to learn how to fly Boeings.
Adel Rafeea received a wire transfer of $5000, on April 18, from Ali Abdul Aziz Ali in the UAE, which he later claimed was money Nawaf had asked him to accept on his behalf.
At the end of May 2000, Hazmi and Mihdhar moved out of Parkwood Apartments, and moved to nearby Lemon Grove, California. and he left San Diego on June 10, 2000.  Mihdhar returned to Yemen, which angered Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who did not want Hazmi to be left alone in California.
On July 12, 2000, Hazmi filed for an extension of his visa, which was due to expire.  His visa was extended until January 2001, though Hazmi never filed any further requests to extend it beyond that.
In September, Nawaf and Mihdhar both moved into the house of FBI informant Abdussattar Shaikh, although he did not report the pair as suspicious. Mihdhar is believed to have left the apartment in early October, less than two weeks before the USS Cole Bombing.  Nawaf continued living with Shaikh until December.
Hani Hanjour arrived in San Diego in early December 2000, joining Hazmi, but on December 10, they were seen leaving their Mount Vernon address leaving for Phoenix, Arizona where Hanjour could take refresher flight training.  On December 12, they arrived at Mesa AZ and stayed with Mourad Jdaaini and Mike Khalaf. On December 22, Hanjour and Hazmi signed a lease for an apartment in the Indian Springs Village complex in Mesa, Arizona, moving in on January 9.
In March al-Hazmi received a shipment of VHS videos including videos about Boeing 747 and 777 flight decks and "how an airline captain should look and act" and later a road atlas, map of NYC and a World aeronautical chart.
On March 30, Al-Hazmi notified his utility company that he might be moving to another state or Saudi Arabia. He and Hanjour moved out before the apartment rental expired at the end of the month on their way to Virginia. 2 days later on April 1, 2001, Oklahoma police officer C. L. Parkins pulled Hazmi over for speeding in their Corolla along with an additional citation for failing to use a seatbelt together totaling $138. A routine inspection of his California drivers license turned up no warrants or alerts, although his name was known to both the NSA and the CIA as a suspected terrorist.-->
Anwar al-Awlaki had already headed east and served as Imam at the Dar al-Hijrah mosque in the metropolitan Washington, DC area starting in January 2001.; Cageprisoners.com, November 8, 2006, accessed June 7, 2007  Shortly after this, his sermons were attended by three of the 9/11 hijackers (the new one being Hanjour).]'', November 7, 2009, accessed November 12, 2009]
By April 3, he was likely with companion Hani Hanjour when he was recorded at an ATM in Front Royal, Virginia, arriving in Falls Church, Virginia, by April 4. They met a man believed to be a Jordanian named Eyad Alrababah at a 7-11 that day. The 9-11 commission wrote that Hazmi and Hanjour met Alrababah at the Dar al Hijra mosque who was computer technician who had moved from West Paterson, New Jersey and was there to ask imam Anwar al-Awlaki about finding a job. He helped the pair rent an apartment in Alexandria where they moved in.
The September 11 Commission concluded that two of the hijackers "reportedly respected Awlaki as a religious figure".
On May 1, 2001, Hazmi reported to police that men tried to take his wallet outside his Fairfax, Virginia residence, but before the county officer left, Hazmi signed a "statement of release" indicating he did not want the incident investigated.
In May 2001, Nidal Hasan's mother's funeral was held at the Falls Church mosque, although it is not known if al-Hazmi attended the service. On May 8, Alrababah suggested that al-Hazmi and al-Mihdhar move with him to Fairfield, Connecticut and helped all four hijackers move to a hotel there. They called area flight schools and after a few days Alrababah drove the four to Paterson, New Jersey to show them around. Some FBI agents suspected that Awlaki gave Alrababah the job of helping Hazmi and Hanjour. Alrababah was later arrested as a witness convicted after 9/11 in a fraudulent driver's license scheme and deported to Jordan.
On May 21, Al-Hazmi moved in with Hanjour into an apartment in Paterson New Jersey. Mohamed Atta was living in the same city at another location.
On June 30, Al-Hazmi's car was involved in a minor traffic accident on the east-bound George Washington Bridge.
On June 25, 2001, Hazmi obtained a drivers' license in Florida, providing an address in Delray Beach, Florida, and he obtained a USA ID card on July 10.  On August 2, Hazmi also obtained a Virginia drivers' license, and made a request for it to be reissued on September 7.
Hazmi, along with at least five other future hijackers, traveled to Las Vegas, Nevada at least six times in the summer of 2001. They reportedly drank alcohol, gambled, and paid strippers to perform lap dances for them.
Throughout the summer, Hazmi met with leader Mohamed Atta to discuss the status of the operation of a monthly basis.
On August 23, Israeli Mossad reportedly gave his name to the CIA as part of a list of 19 names they said were planning an attack in the near future.  Only four of the names are known for certain - Narwaf, Atta, al-Shehhi and al-Mihdhar, but again the connection was not made with previous contacts by local law enforcement.BBC, , October 2, 2002 On the same day, he was added to an INS watch list, together with Mihdhar to prevent entry into the US.
An internal review after 9/11 found that "everything was done [to find them] that could have been done." But the search does not appear to have been particularly aggressive. A national motor vehicle index was reportedly checked, but Hazmi's speeding ticket was not detected for some reason. The FBI did not search credit card databases, bank account databases, or car registration, all of which would have produced positive results. Hazmi was even listed in the 2000-2001 San Diego phone book, but this too was not searched until after the attacks.http://www.sun-sentinel.com/news/local/southflorida/sfl-worldtrade-suspectprofiles.story  
He had not been placed on terrorist watch lists, nor did the CIA or NSA alert the FBI, Customs and Immigration, or local police and enforcement agencies.
On August 27, brothers Nawaf and Salem purchased flight tickets through Travelocity.com using Nawaf's Visa card.
On September 1, Nawaf registered Room #7 at the Pin-Del Motel in Laurel, Maryland.
Nawaf and Mihdhar purchased their 9/11 plane tickets online using a credit card with their real names. This raised no red flags, since the FAA had not been informed that the two were on a terrorist watchlist.
On September 10, 2001, Hanjour, Mihdhar, and Nawaf checked into the Marriott Residence Inn in Herndon, Virginia where Saleh Ibn Abdul Rahman Hussayen, a prominent Saudi government official, was staying  - although no evidence was ever uncovered that they had met, or knew of each other's presence.
On September 11, Hazmi boarded American Airlines Flight 77. The flight was scheduled to depart at 08:10 but ended up departing 10 minutes late from Gate D26 at Dulles.
Nawaf al-Hazmi's 1988 blue Toyota Corolla was found on the next day in Dulles International Airport's hourly parking lot.  Inside the vehicle, authorities found a letter written by Mohamed Atta, maps of Washington, D.C. and New York City, a cashier's check made out to a Phoenix flight school, four drawings of a Boeing 757 cockpit, a box cutter, and a page with notes and phone numbers.
In the recovery process at the Pentagon, remains of all five Flight 77 hijackers were identified through a process of elimination, as not matching any DNA samples for the victims, and put into custody of the FBI. Forensics teams confirmed that it seemed two of the hijackers were brothers, based on their DNA similarities.
Several weeks after the attacks, a Las Vegas Days Inn employee went to the FBI and stated that she recognized Hazmi's photographs from the media as being a man she had met at the hotel, who had asked for details on hotels near Los Angeles. She admitted that he never gave his name., Las Vegas Review-Journal, By GLENN PUIT and J.M. KALIL, Friday, October 26, 2001
Late in 2005, Army Lt. Col. Kevin Shaffer and Congressman Curt Weldon alleged that the Defense Department data mining project Able Danger had kept Nawaf, Khalid al-Mihdhar, Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi all under surveillance as Al-Qaeda agents.
*January 15, 2000: Hazmi and Khalid al-Mihdhar arrive in Los Angeles from Bangkok, Thailand.
*February 2000: Hazmi and Mihdhar move to San Diego.
*Autumn 2000: Hamzi works at a gas station while living in San Diego.
*March 2001: Nawaf al-Hazmi and Hani Hanjour move from Phoenix to Falls Church, Virginia.
*Mid-March 2001: Nawaf al-Hazmi, Ahmed al-Ghamdi, Majed Moqed, and Hani Hanjour stay for four days in the Fairfield Motor Inn, Fairfield, Connecticut. They meet with Eyad Alrababah, a Palestinian who may have provided false identification documents.
* PENTTBOM
* 
'''Salem al-Hazmi''' (, also transliterated as '''Alhazmi''') (February 2, 1981 - September 11, 2001) was one of five hijackers of American Airlines Flight 77 as part of the September 11 attacks.
Hazmi had a relatively long history with al-Qaeda before being selected for the attacks. He obtained a tourist visa through the Visa Express program and arrived in the United States in June 2001 where he would settle in New Jersey with other American 77 hijackers up until the attacks.
On September 11, 2001, Hazmi boarded American Airlines Flight 77 and helped subdue the passengers and crew for Hani Hanjour, the pilot among the hijackers, to crash the plane into west facade of the Pentagon. His older brother, Nawaf al-Hazmi, was another hijacker aboard the same flight. At the age of 20 years and 221 days, he was the youngest hijacker who participated in the attacks.
Hazmi was born on February 2, 1981 to Muhammad Salim al-Hazmi, a grocer, in Mecca, Saudi Arabia. His father described Salem as a quarrelsome teenager who had problems with alcohol and petty theft. However, he stopped drinking and began to attend the mosque about three months before he left his family.
There are reports that he fought in Afghanistan with his brother, Nawaf al-Hazmi, and other reports say the two fought together in Chechnya. Salem al-Hazmi was an al-Qaeda veteran by the time he was selected for participation in the 9/11 attacks. U.S intelligence learned of Hazmi's involvement with al-Qaeda as early as 1999, but he was not placed on any watchlists.
Known as ''Bilal'' during the preparations,Videotape of recorded will of Abdulaziz al-Omari and others both he and Ahmed al-Ghamdi flew to Beirut in November 2000, though on separate flights.
Along with Nawaf al-Hazmi and several other future hijackers, Salem al-Hazmi may have attended the 2000 Al Qaeda Summit in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. It was there that the details of the 9/11 attacks were decided upon.
According to the FBI and the 9/11 Commission report, Hazmi first entered the United States on June 29, 2001, although there are numerous unconfirmed reports that he was living in San Antonio, Texas with fellow hijacker Satam al-Suqami much earlier. Hazmi used the controversial Visa Express program to gain entry into the country.
Hazmi moved to Paterson, New Jersey where he lived with Hani Hanjour. Both were among the five hijackers who applied for Virginia identity cards at the Arlington, Virginia|Arlington office of the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles on August 2, 2001, although Salem already held an NJ identity card.
On August 27, brothers Nawaf and Salem purchased flight tickets through Travelocity.com using Nawaf's visa card.
With the four other Flight 77 hijackers, he worked out at a Gold's Gym in Greenbelt, Maryland from September 2 to September 6 of the same year.
On September 11, 2001, Hazmi boarded American Airlines Flight 77. Airport surveillance video from Washington's Dulles Airport shows two of the five hijackers, including Salem al-Hazmi, being pulled aside to undergo additional scrutiny after setting off metal detectors. 
The flight was scheduled to depart at 08:10, but ended up departing 10 minutes late from Gate D26 at Dulles.  The last normal radio communications from the aircraft to air traffic control occurred at 08:50:51.
Shortly after the attacks, several sources reported that Salem al-Hazmi, 26, was alive and working at a petrochemical plant in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia. He claimed that his passport had been stolen by a pickpocket in Cairo three years before, and that the pictures and details such as date of birth released to the public by the FBI were his own. He also stated that he had never visited the United States, but volunteered to fly to the U.S. to prove his innocence. On September 19, ''Al-Sharq Al-Awsat'' published his photograph alongside  Badr Alhazmi's, who they claimed was the actual hijacker who had stolen his identity.
Muhammad Salim al-Hazmi, father of the two suspects, Nawaf and Salim Muhammad al-Hazmi, said that the published photos may be doctored or faked somehow. Hazmi continued, "As a father, I have a feeling that the two of them are still alive and unhurt, and will come back home in the near future when the truth is uncovered and the real culprits are found."
After some confusion and doubt Saudi Arabia admitted that in fact the names of the hijackers were correct. "The names that we got confirmed that," Interior Minister Prince Nayef said in an interview with The Associated Press. "Their families have been notified." Nayef said the Saudi leadership was shocked to learn 15 of the hijackers were from Saudi Arabia and said it was natural that the kingdom had not noticed their involvement beforehand.
* PENTTBOM
'''Ahmed bin Abdullah al-Nami''' (Arabic: ???? ?? ??? ???? ??????, ; also transliterated as '''Alnami'''; August 17, 1977 - September 11, 2001) was one of four hijackers of United Airlines Flight 93 as part of the September 11 attacks. 
Born in Saudi Arabia, Nami had served as a muezzin and was a college student. He left his family in 2000 to complete the Hajj, but later went to Afghanistan bound for an al-Qaeda training camp where he befriended other future hijackers and would soon be chosen to participate in the attacks.
He arrived in the United States in May 2001, on a tourist visa, where he would settle in Florida up until the attacks. On September 11, 2001, Nami boarded United 93 and assisted in the hijacking of the plane, which crashed into a field in rural Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after a passenger uprising, due to the passengers receiving information from their families of the 3 other hijacked planes that hit the World Trade Center (1973-2001)|World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
Nami, much like Abdulaziz al-Omari, Wail al-Shehri, Waleed al-Shehri, and Mohand al-Shehri was born in the 'Asir Province in Saudi Arabia.  Born to the Quraish tribe of Saudi Arabia,Videotape of recorded will of Abdulaziz al-Omari and others Nami served as a muezzin at the Seqeley mosque after having reportedly become very religious sometime in early 1999. That autumn he left his family home in Khamis Mushayt in the summer of 2000 to complete the Hajj, but never returned - instead travelling to the Al Farouq training camp in Afghanistan where he met  and befriended Waleed al-Shehri|Waleed and Wail al-Shehri, two brothers from Khamis Mushayt, and Saeed al-Ghamdi. The four reportedly pledged themselves to Jihad in the Spring of 2000, in a ceremony presided over by Wail - who had dubbed himself ''Abu Mossaeb al-Janubi'' after one of Muhammad's companions.Boston Globe,  Dubbed "Abu Hashim", Nami was considered "gentle in manner" by his colleagues, and reported that he had a dream in which he rode a mare along with Muhammad, and that the prophet told him to dismount and fight his enemies to liberate his land.
During his time at al-Farooq, there is a curious mention under Mushabib al-Hamlan's details that Nami had recently had laser eye surgery, an uncited fact that does not reappear. 
By October he had taken a prospective hijacker Mushabib al-Hamlan from Afghanistan to Saudi Arabia where they both procured B-1/B-2 tourist/business visas on October 28 - but Hamlan then decided not to proceed and is thought to have returned to his family. Nami's visa application has since been reviewed, and while he mentioned that Mushabib will be travelling with him, he listed his occupation as ''student'' but failed to provide an address for his school, and listed his intended address in the United States merely as Los Angeles - in the end he never used this visa to enter the United States, and reported his passport (C115007, which showed evidence of travel to Afghanistan) as "lost", and procured a new one from Jeddah (C505363).  He used the new passport to acquire a new B-1/B-2 visa in Jeddah on April 23, again recopying his answers from previously although crossing out the lines regarding Mushabib and previous attempts to acquire a visa. He was interviewed by a consular officer, who again approved his application.  Records at the time only recorded past failures to procure a visa, so the officer had no way of realising that Nami had successfully received an earlier visa.
In mid-November 2000, the 9/11 Commission believes that Nami, Wail al-Shehri|Wail and Waleed al-Shehri, all of whom had obtained their U.S. visas in late October, traveled in a group from Saudi Arabia to Beirut and then onward to Iran where they could travel through to Afghanistan without getting their passports stamped. This probably followed their return to Saudi Arabia to get "clean" passports. An associate of a senior Hezbollah operative is thought to have been on the same flight, although this may have been a coincidence.  
While in the United Arab Emirates, Nami purchased traveler's cheques presumed to have been paid for by Mustafa al-Hawsawi.  Five other hijackers also passed through the UAE and purchased travellers cheques, including Majed Moqed, Saeed al-Ghamdi, Hamza al-Ghamdi, Ahmed al-Haznawi and Wail al-Shehri.
In March 2001, Ahmed al-Nami appeared in an al-Qaeda farewell video showing 13 of the ''muscle hijackers'' before they left their training centre in Kandahar; while he does not speak, he is seen studying maps and flight manuals.
On April 23, Nami was recorded obtaining a new US visa.
On May 28, Nami arrived in the United States from Dubai with fellow-hijackers Mohand al-Shehri and Hamza al-Ghamdi. By early June, Nami was living in apartment 1504 at the Delray Racquet Club condominiums with Saeed al-Ghamdi in Delray Beach, Florida. He telephoned his family in 'Asir shortly after arriving in the country.
In June, he phoned his family for the last time.
He was one of 9 hijackers to open a SunTrust bank account with a cash deposit around June 2001, and on June 29 received either a Florida State Identification Card or Drivers License. 
He may have been one of three hijackers that listed the Naval Air Station in Pensacola, Florida as their permanent address on drivers' licenses, though other sources claim he listed the Delray condominium.
On August 28, Nami and Ahmed al-Haznawi reportedly bothered a Delray Beach resident, Maria Siscar Simpson, to let them through her apartment to retrieve a towel that had fallen off their balcony onto hers.
On September 5, Nami and Saeed al-Ghamdi purchased tickets for a September 7 flight to Newark at Mile High Travel on Commercial Boulevard-paying cash for their tickets. Ziad Jarrah and Ahmed al-Haznawi also purchased tickets for the same flight from Passage Tours.
On September 7, all four Flight 93 hijackers flew from Fort Lauderdale to Newark International Airport aboard Spirit Airlines.
On September 11, 2001, Nami arrived in Newark to board United Airlines Flight 93 along with Saeed al-Ghamdi, Ahmed al-Haznawi and Ziad Jarrah. Some reports suggest Haznawi was pulled aside for screening while others claim there is no record of whether any of the four were screened; the lack of Closed-circuit television|CCTV cameras at the time has compounded the problem. Nami boarded the plane between 7:39 am and 7:48 am; seated in First Class 3C, next to Saeed al-Ghamdi.
Due to the flight's routine delay, the pilot and crew were notified of the previous hijackings and were told to be on the alert, though within two minutes Jarrah had stormed the cockpit leaving the pilots dead or injured.
At least two of the cellphone calls made by passengers indicate that all the hijackers they saw were wearing red bandanas, which some have questioned may have signified an allegiance to the Egyptian Islamic Jihad.  The calls also indicated that one of the men had tied a box around his torso, and claimed there was a bomb inside; it is not known which hijacker this was.
Passengers on the plane heard through phone calls the fates of the other hijacked planes, and organized a brief assault to retake the cockpit. The hijackers crashed the plane into the Pennsylvanian countryside rather than cede control of the plane. All aboard died.
After the attacks, an employee of Saudi Arabian Airlines named Ahmed al-Nami came forward to say that he feared his identity had been stolen, although he had never lost his passport.
He has been portrayed by British actor Jamie Harding in the 2006 film ''United 93'' and Asim Wali in the film Flight 93.
*PENTTBOM
* 
'''Fawaz bin Mohammed al-Nashimi''' (died June 2004), also known as '''Turki bin Fuheid al-Muteiry''', was a member of Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and was identified by the group as the 20th hijacker of the September 11th attacks.", ''BBC News'', June 21, 2006. Accessed June 21, 2006  Born in Saudi Arabia, Nashimi participated in the 29 May 2004 Al-Khobar massacres and successfully escaped Saudi security forces.  He was killed by Saudi forces in June 2004.
On June 21, 2006, a US intelligence contractor in Virginia, IntelCenter, released a 54-minute Al-Qaeda video in which Nashimi justifies attacking the Western World.  Several days before on June 13, an audio webpost supposedly from Al-Qaeda claimed that Nashimi was to have been the 20th hijacker on United Airlines Flight 93, but was unable to participate at the planned time. 
'''Saud Hamoud 'Abid al-Qatini al-'Otaibi''' (1971 - April 3, 2005) was a senior member of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula|al-Qaeda in Saudi Arabia. Al-Otaibi was responsible for bombings, including the attack on Al-Mohaya housing compound in Riyadh in 2003,  Al-Otaibi was also involved in taking booby-trapped vehicles from Qasim to Riyadh, carrying out attacks on security officers and smuggling weapons into the Kingdom .
According to Asharq Al-Awsat newspaper that A-Qatini was born in the capital city in 1971,  According to Asharq Al-Awsat that he traveled to Yemen to visit sheik Muqbil bin Haadi al-Waadi'ee, and he was an extreme adherent of Islamic sharia (Islamic law). He was married and had 7 sons.
Sometimes in the late 80s' or early 90s' Saud Al-Otaibi traveled to Afghanistan, apparently to work with an Islamic Charity there, he had a personal relationship with Abdel Aziz al-Muqrin before September 11 attacks, Saud had been captured by the Saudi security forces more than once since 1991 to 2002.
Al-Qatini was killed in a 3-day battle with Saudi security forces in Ar Rass on April 3, 2005, alongside Karim el-Mejjati. The Interior Ministry confirmed the death of Saud Al-Otaibi on April 9, 2005.
'''Mohamed Rashed Daoud Al-Owhali''' (born 18 January 1977) is a British-born Saudi terrorist. Al-Owhali is one of the four al-Qaeda members sentenced in 2001 to life without parole for their parts in the 1998 United States embassy bombings. The others are Mohammed Saddiq Odeh, Khalfan Khamis Mohamed, and Wadih el Hage. All four are in the supermax prison known as ADX Florence.
A Saudi from a wealthy family, al-Owhali attended Khalden training camp in 1996. He traveled to Kenya on a false passport under the name of Khalid Salim Saleh Bin Rashid, which he later claimed was provided by "Bilal", which is an alias of Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri.
During the Nairobi bombing, he had initially sat in the passenger seat of the Toyota Dyna, and threw a stun grenade at embassy guards before exiting the vehicle which the driver detonated. Osama bin Laden later offered the explanation that it had been his intention to leap out and shoot the guards to clear a path for the truck, but that he had left his pistol in the truck and subsequently ran off.
Kenyan doctors attending to al-Owhali were suspicious of his role in the event, and noted that his injuries showed he had his back to the explosion and suggested he may have been running from the scene.
He was arrested August 12, 1998 and confessed to his role in the bombing. He cooperated with the FBI willingly, and gave them the telephone number he had called before and following the bombing: 967-1-200578. It was a phone number to a house in Yemen belonging to Ahmad Mohammad Ali al-Hada, the father-in-law of Khalid Mihdhar. The house turned out to be the key communications hub for al-Qaeda. Through this number the CIA learned about the upcoming Kuala Lumpur al-Qaeda Summit where the plans for 9/11 and USS Cole bombing were finalized.
In a successful bid to escape the death penalty, al-Owhali's lawyers used a video clip from Madeleine Albright and courtroom testimony from Ramsey Clark and Dennis Halliday, attesting to the negative impact of sanctions against Iraq in the 1990s, which encouraged al-Owhali to participant in terrorism against the United States.
Two Summary of Evidence memos prepared for the Combatant Status Review Tribunals of the fourteen "Extrajudicial prisoners of the United States#High-value detainees|high-value detainees" mentioned al-Owhali:
{| class="wikitable"
! '''name''' || '''notes'''
|-
| Walid Bin Attash || 
*One of the allegations against Walid Bin Attash was:
:{|
| 
:"'''Mohammad Rashed Daoud Al-Owhali''' (Al-Owhali) stated that in approximately June or July 1998, the detainee told him that his (Al-Owhali's) mission was a martyrdom mission, where he would be driving a vehicle filled with explosives into a target which would result in his death. The detainee told Al-Owhali the target was a United States embassy in East Africa, but he was not told the exact country."
|}
|-
| Abd Al Rahim Hussein Mohammed Al Nashiri ||
*One of the allegations against Al Nashiri was:
:{|
| 
:"'''Mohammad Rashid Daoud Al-Owhali''' (Al-Owhali), confessed and was later convicted in the United States District Court, Southern District of New York, for his role in the al Qaida bombings of the United States embassies in East Africa, which occurred on 7 August 1998. Al-Owhali obtained a Yemeni passport in the name of Khalid Salim Saleh Bin Rashid. Al-Owhali identified the individual who facilitated Al-Owhali's obtaining a Yemeni passport as Bilal, Bilal is known to Federal Bureau of Investigation investigators as Abdul Rahim al Nashiri, the detainee. Al-Owhali used this same Yemeni passport to travel to Nairobi, Kenya, arriving on 2 August 1998."
|}
|}
* This is a declassified executive summary of status and findings of the FBI investigation into the embassy bombings as of November 18, 1998.
'''Ahmed Ibrahim Al-Mughassil''' (, alt. spelling Ahmad Ibrahim Al-Mughassil; born June 26, 1967 in Qatif - Bab Al Shamal, Saudi Arabia) was wanted by the United States government in connection with the June 25, 1996 attack on the Khobar Towers complex near Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.  He was indicted in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia and charged June 21, 2001 with 46½ separate criminal counts including murder for having driven the bomb truck that blew up Khobar Towers.
Al-Mughassil is also known as Abu Omran and Arfad.  He has been identified as head of the military wing of the pro-Iran Saudi Hizballah, or Hizballah Al-Hijaz, meaning Party of God.  The group is one of a number of related Hizballah organizations operating in Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, Kuwait and Bahrain, among other places, and was outlawed in Saudi Arabia.
The indictment traces the carefully organized 1996 bomb plot back to on or about 1993 when Al-Mughassil began to carefully review his cell members' surveillance reports of Americans in Saudi Arabia.
In the Fall of 1994, the cell determined Khobar Towers to be an important American military location and began an effort in the region to locate a storage site for explosives.
In 1995, an Iranian military officer directed the cell's surveillance on the Red Sea coast of Saudi Arabia for sites of possible future attacks against Americans, and the indictment alleges that Iranian officials enjoyed close ties and provided financial support to Al-Mughassil's party.
About June 1995, regular surveillance of Khobar Towers began, at the direction of Al-Mughassil. By late Fall 1995, Al-Mughassil had decided that Hizballah would attack Khobar Towers with a tanker truck loaded with explosives. In early 1996, Al-Mughassil began to hide explosives around the Khobar area.
In early June 1996, according to the indictment, a tanker truck was purchased by the conspirators, who then spent two weeks converting the truck into a truck bomb. The cell finalized plans on the evening of June 25, 1996, for the attack that night.
When the Datsun signaled that all was clear by blinking its lights, the bomb truck, driven by Al-Mughassil and with Ali Saed Bin Ali El-Hoorie as a passenger, entered the lot and backed up against a fence in front of building # 131. Al-Mughassil and El-Hoorie then exited the truck and entered the back seat of the Caprice for the getaway, driving away followed by the Datsun. In minutes, a massive explosion sheared the north face off of Building 131.  19 American servicemen were killed, and 372 were wounded.
Although rooftop sentries were immediately suspicious of the truck-parked some 80 feet from the building-and attempted an evacuation, few escaped. Comparable to 20,000 pounds of TNT, the bomb was estimated to be larger than the one that destroyed the federal building in Oklahoma City a year before, and more than twice as powerful as the 1983 bomb used at the Marine barracks in Beirut.
Immediately following the attack, the leaders fled the Khobar area and Saudi Arabia using fake passports.
In 2001, al-Mughassil was eventually indicted along with his co-conspirators for the 1996 Khobar Towers attack.  Still a U.S. fugitive months later, he then became one of four of the indicted men from the 1996 Khobar Towers attack who were named on the initial list of the FBI's top 22 Most Wanted Terrorists, which was released to the public by former President Bush on October 10, 2001.
Al-Mughassil was believed to be living in Iran.
On August 26, 2015, the Saudi-owned newspaper Asharq al-Awsat reported that al-Mughassil had been captured in Beirut and transferred to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
* 
* 
, for Conspiracy to Kill U.S. Nationals; Conspiracy to Murder U.S. Employees; Conspiracy to Use Weapons of Mass Destruction Against U.S. Nationals; Conspiracy to Destroy Property of the U.S.; Conspiracy to Attack National Defense Utilities; Bombing Resulting in Death; Use of Weapons of Mass Destruction Against U.S. Nationals; Murder While Using Destructive Device During a Crime of Violence; Murder of Federal Employees; Attempted Murder of Federal Employees
'''Ibrahim Salih Mohammed Al-Yacoub''' (), born October 16, 1966 in Qatif, Saudi Arabia is wanted by the United States government in connection with the June 25, 1996 attack on the Khobar Towers complex near Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.  He was indicted by a Federal Grand Jury in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia on June 21, 2001 on 46 separate criminal counts including murder for his role in the attack, which was led by Ahmed Ibrahim Al-Mughassil.
Months after his 2001 indictment in the 1996 attack, Al-Yacoub, then still a U.S. fugitive, was placed on the initial list of the FBI's top 22 Most Wanted Terrorists, which was released to the public by President Bush on October 10, 2001.
Al Yacoub is alleged to be a member of the pro-Iran Saudi Hizballah, or Hizballah Al-Hijaz, meaning Party of God, being led by Al-Mughassil.  The group is one of a number of related Hezbollah terrorist organizations operating in Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, Kuwait and Bahrain, among other places, and was outlawed in Saudi Arabia.
The 2001 indictment traces the carefully organized 1996 bomb plot back to on or about 1993 when Al-Yacoub was part of a team instructed by Al Mughassil to begin surveillance of Americans in Saudi Arabia, including at the location of Khobar Towers as early as 1994.
Al-Yacoub remained one of the planners of the attack on Khobar Towers through at least early June 1996. The cell finalized plans on the evening of June 25, 1996, for the attack that night. In the subsequent blast, 19 American servicemen were killed, and 372 were wounded.
Immediately following the terrorist attack, the leaders fled the Khobar area and Saudi Arabia using fake passports.
* 
* 
'''Hamza al-Ghamdi''' (, also transliterated as '''Alghamdi''') (November 18, 1980http://www.nefafoundation.org/miscellaneous/FeaturedDocs/FBI911Timeline.pdf - September 11, 2001) was one of five hijackers of United Airlines Flight 175 as part of the September 11 attacks.
Born in Saudi Arabia, Hamza left his family to fight in Chechnya and was probably sent to al-Qaeda training camps in Afghanistan where he was chosen to participate in the 9/11 attacks.
He arrived in the United States in May 2001 on a tourist visa. On September 11, 2001, Hamza  boarded United Airlines Flight 175 and hijacked the plane along with four other terrorists so that the plane could be crashed into the South Tower of the World Trade Center (1973-2001)|World Trade Center.
Some reports say that Hamza left his home to fight in Chechnya against the Russians in early 2000. (Other reports say he left in January 2001.) He called home several times until mid-2001, saying he was in Chechnya.
Known as ''Julaybeeb'' during the preparations,Videotape of recorded will of Abdulaziz al-Omari and others Hamza traveled to the  United Arab Emirates some time in late 2000, where he purchased traveler's cheques presumed to have been paid for by Mustafa al-Hawsawi.  Five other hijackers also passed through the UAE and purchased travellers cheques, including Majed Moqed, Saeed al-Ghamdi, Wail al-Shehri, Ahmed al-Haznawi and Ahmed al-Nami.
In January 2001, Ghamdi rented a post office box in Delray Beach, Florida with another hijacker, Mohand al-Shehri.  According to FBI director Robert Mueller and the 9/11 Commission however, Hamza did not first enter the United States until a  London flight on May 28 with Mohand and Abdulaziz al-Omari.
In March 2001, Ghamdi was filmed in a farewell video that was aired on al Jazeera. In the video, many future 9/11 hijackers swear to become martyrs, although no details of the plot are revealed. Ghamdi does not speak in the film, but is seen studying maps and flight manuals.
He was one of 9 hijackers to open a SunTrust bank account with a cash deposit around June 2001. Ghamdi also applied for and received a Florida drivers license on June 27, 2001. In the next two months, he obtained two duplicate licenses simply by filling out change-of-address forms. Five other suspected hijackers also receive duplicate Florida licenses in 2001, and others had licenses in different states. Some have speculated that this was to allow multiple persons to use the same identity. ''Sun-Sentinel''.
Ghamdi purchased his own eTicket for Flight 175 on August 29, using his Visa card. The FBI also claimed that he also purchased an eTicket for a "Flight 7950" from Los Angeles to San Francisco, although it does not give the projected date of flight. ''US Senate''. September 25, 2002. 
On August 30, Hamza bought Ahmed al-Ghamdi an identical eTicket for Flight 175, and bought them each one-way tickets on an AirTran flight on September 7, from Fort Lauderdale to Boston. However, Ghamdi instead went with Mohand al-Shehri to Newark, New Jersey on $139.75 tickets purchased from the Mile High Travel agency in Lauderdale-by-the-Sea.
Hamza and Ahmed al-Ghamdi stayed at the Charles Hotel in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  On September 8 they checked out of the hotel, and moved into the Days Hotel on Soldiers Field Road in Brighton, Boston, Massachusetts where they remained up until the attacks. ''The Boston Globe''. September 15, 2001.
On the morning of September 11, 2001, Hamza left the hotel with Ahmed al-Ghamdi. The two men shared a taxicab to get to Logan International Airport, where they boarded Flight 175. Hamza al-Ghamdi and his older brother Ahmed pushed the passengers and crew to the back of the plane while Fayez Banihammad and Mohand al-Shehri killed the pilots Victor Saracini and Michael Horrocks allowing Marwan al-Shehhi to take control of the plane.
On September 22, 2001, Arab News reported that Hamza al-Ghamdi's father told the Al Watan (Saudi Arabia)|Al-Watan newspaper that an "FBI-released" photograph bore absolutely no resemblance to his son. ''Arab View''. September 22, 2001 However, the picture Ghamdi's father refers to is assumed to have not been a picture released by the FBI, as they did not make the hijacker's pictures available until September 27, 2001. ''FBI''. September 27, 2001.
He appeared in a video released on September 7, 2006, that showed the planning of the attacks. ''CNN''. September 7, 2006.
* 
'''Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri''' (
Al-Nashiri was captured in Dubai in 2002 and held for four years in secret CIA prisons known as "black sites" in Afghanistan, Thailand, Poland, Morocco, and Romania, before being transferred to the Guantanamo Bay detention camp. While being interrogated, al-Nashiri was waterboarded, a technique since classified as torture. In 2005 the CIA 2005 CIA interrogation tapes destruction|destroyed the tapes of Nashiri's waterboarding. In another incident he was naked and hooded and threatened with a gun and a power drill to scare him into talking.
Al-Nashiri was granted victim status in 2010 by the Polish government and a Polish prosecutor began "investigating the possible abuse of power by Polish public officials with regard to a CIA black site" in 2008.
In December 2008, al-Nashiri was charged by the United States before a Guantanamo Military Commission.Salon.com, "", December 23, 2008 The charges were dropped in February 2009 and reinstated in 2011.
Born in Saudi Arabia, al-Nashiri travelled to Afghanistan in the early 1990s to participate in attacks against the Russians in the region, at a time when the United States supported the mujahideen in such actions. In 1996, he travelled to Tajikistan and then Jalalabad, Afghanistan|Jalalabad, Afghanistan, where he first met Osama bin Laden.  Bin Laden attempted to convince al-Nashiri to join al-Qaeda at this point, but he refused because he found the idea of swearing a loyalty oath to bin Laden to be distasteful.  After al-Nashiri travelled to Yemen, he is alleged to have begun to consider committing terrorist actions against United States interests.
When he returned to Afghanistan in 1997, he again met bin Laden, but again declined to join in the terrorist group. Instead, he fought with the Taliban against the Afghan Northern Alliance. Still, he assisted in the smuggling of four anti-tank missiles into Saudi Arabia, and helped arrange for a terrorist to get a Yemeni passport. His cousin, Jihad Mohammad Ali al-Makki, was one of the suicide bombers in the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings in Kenya.
 is towed away from the port city of Aden, Yemen, into open sea on Oct. 29, 2000.
Finally, probably in 1998, al-Nashiri is alleged to have joined al-Qaeda, reporting directly to bin Laden. In late 1998, he conceived of a plot to attack a U.S. vessel using a boat full of explosives. Bin Laden personally approved of the plan, and provided money for it. First, al-Nashiri allegedly attempted to attack the USS The Sullivans (DDG-68)|USS ''The Sullivans'' as a part of the 2000 millennium attack plots, but the boat he used was overloaded with explosives and began to sink.
The next attempt was the USS Cole bombing|USS ''Cole'' bombing, which was successful. Seventeen U.S. sailors were killed, and many more were injured.  This terrorist attack made al-Nashiri prominent within al-Qaeda, and he allegedly was made the chief of operations for the Arabian Peninsula.  He organized the Limburg tanker bombing in 2002 of a French-flagged vessel off Yemen, and he may have planned other attacks as well.
In November 2002, al-Nashiri was captured in the United Arab Emirates.  He is in American military custody in the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, having previously been held at some secret locations. On September 29, 2004, he was sentenced to death ''in absentia'' in a Yemeni court for his role in the USS ''Cole'' bombing.
Before being transported to military custody at Guantanamo, al-Nashiri was held by the CIA at black sites in Thailand and Poland for an undisclosed amount of time.  CIA officials disagreed on al-Nashiri's role in planning the ''Cole'' bombing. One CIA official said of al-Nashiri, "He was an idiot. He couldn't read or comprehend a comic book."Goldman, Adam, "", ''Washington Post'', January 23, 2014
Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri was interrogated numerous times. In 2007 he attributed his confessions of involvement in the ''USS Cole'' bombing to torture, including waterboarding.
 All the details Abd al-Rahim offered of his claims of torture were redacted from his transcript.
Through Freedom of Information Act requests, the American Civil Liberties Union was able to acquire less redacted versions of the transcripts from Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri's Combatant Status Review Tribunal, and those of three other captives.
In his opening statement, al-Nashiri listed seven false confessions he had been coerced to make while being waterboarded.
#The Maritime Jewel#Bombing|French Merchant Vessel Limburg incident.
#The USS Cole bombing.
#The rockets in Saudi Arabia.
#The plan to bomb American ships in the Gulf.
#Relationship with people committing bombings in Saudi Arabia.
#Osama Bin Laden having a nuclear bomb.
#A plan to hijack a plane and crash it into a ship.
During the course of his tribunal, he claimed to have made additional confessions under the duress of torture.  He was ostensibly the last of the al-Qaeda suspects to be videotaped, as he was waterboarded in Thailand by CIA officers who questioned him. Shortly after, when a prisoner died in CIA custody in Iraq, the government agents decided against videotaping such interrogations, as this provided criminal "evidence" if things went wrong.Mayer, Jane, The Dark Side (book)|''The Dark Side: The Inside Story of How the War on Terror Turned Into a War on American Ideals'', 2008. p. 225 All the CIA tapes showing detainees being waterboarded were destroyed in 2005.
It was reported on August 22, 2009, that al-Nashiri was the subject of what is described as a mock execution during his torture by the CIA. A power drill and a handgun were used.
In May 2011 al-Nashiri's lawyers filed a case against Poland with the European Court of Human Rights. They said that Al-Nashiri was held and allegedly tortured in a secret CIA "black site" prison "north of Warsaw" (OSAW) from December 2002 to June 2003 with the collaboration or consent of the Polish government.
On January 29, 2009, an order from US president Obama's administration to suspend all Guantanamo military commission hearings for 120 days was overruled by military judge Army Colonel James Pohl in al-Nashiri's case.
On February 5, 2009, al-Nashiri's charges were withdrawn without prejudice.
 Since 2011, al-Nashiri has been at trial.
The prosecution planned to request the death penalty for Al Nashiri.
The decision lies with the Convening authority, retired Admiral Bruce E. MacDonald|Bruce MacDonald.
In April 2011 the Department of Defense allowed Richard Kammen, a civilian lawyer with a background in defending suspects against death penalty cases, to join Al Nashiri's defense team.
Al Nashiri became the first Guantanamo captive to face the death penalty.
In a letter in July 2011, al-Nashiri's legal team said: 
On October 24, 2011 Lieutenant Commander Stephen Reyes filed a legal motion requesting that jurors in his case be informed that he may be detained in Guantanamo, even if he was acquitted of all charges.
Al Nashiri's formal charges are scheduled to be announced at the Tribunal on November 9, 2011.
Legal scholar Robert M. Chesney, of ''Lawfare'', speculated Al Nashiri would be detained, if acquitted, for at least several more years.
Chesney argued that it would be just to continue to detain Al Nashiri, even if he were acquitted, because conviction requires a higher standard of evidence than a ''habeas corpus'' petition.
Presiding Officer James L. Pohl considered several motions during a pre-trial hearing on April 11, 2012.
He deferred rulings on many of them.
He did rule to unshackle Nashiri for meetings with his lawyers, who had argued that he was traumatized by being shackled for years in secret CIA prisons and that being shackled during meetings impairs his ability to work with his lawyers.
On May 8, 2012, Ali Soufan, Al Nashiri's original FBI interrogator, asked whether a recently published book by former CIA official Jose Rodriguez would undermine Al Nashiri's prosecution.
Soufan's original FBI interrogation used the time-tested, legal technique of rapport-building. He has argued that the information derived from the suspects using legal techniques, prior to the Bush administration decision to allow the CIA to take over the interrogations and to employ torture, was reliable-where the confessions derived through torture were not.
Rodriguez was in over-all charge of the CIA's torture program.
According to Soufan, Rodriquez's account of al Nashiri's role in the Cole bombing differed markedly from that of the prosecution.  Rodriguez disputed that Al Nashiri had been the bombing's "mastermind", and agreed with a colleague who characterized him as "the dumbest terrorist I have ever met".
Presiding Officer James Pohl ruled on February 7, 2013, that an independent panel of mental health experts should examine Al Nashiri, and report on how the documented torture he was subjected to would affect his ability to assist in his own defense. Pohl called for the director of the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center to nominate the members of examination team. He called for the team to report back by April 1, 2013. The team is supposed to be given full access to al Nashiri's medical files, including the top secret records from his times in CIA custody. The assessment was requested by the prosecution.
Al Nashiri's defense team objected to the assessment, based on their doubts that a team appointed by the Office of Military Commissions could be relied upon. They called for the team to rely on the advice of Vincent Iacopino for how to interview Al Nashiri, without causing additional damage. Iacopino, a renowned expert on torture, had testified before the Military Commission on February 5, 2013 about the possible effects of torture on Al Nashiri.
According to Richard Kammen, Nashiri's chief lawyer, psychiatric expert Sondra Crosby believes Nashiri is "one of the most damaged victims of torture" she has ever examined.
In 2011, Vice Admiral Bruce E. MacDonald convened a Guantanamo military commission under the Military Commissions Act of 2009 to try al-Nashiri for the bombing of the USS Cole and the M/V Limburg and the attempted bombing of the USS The Sullivans (DDG-68).  Al-Nashiri then sued Vice Admiral MacDonald in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington to block the commission and, in May 2012, U.S. District Judge Robert Jensen Bryan rejected al-Nashiri's claim., No. 11-5907 RJB (W.D. Wash. May 10, 2012).  That judgment was affirmed by United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit Judges M. Margaret McKeown, Arthur Lawrence Alarcon, and Sandra Segal Ikuta in December 2013., 741 F.3d 1002 (9th Cir. 2013).
On February 18, 2014, al Nashiri attempted to fire his counsel, Rick Kammen. Judge Pohl granted a recess until February 19, 2014, to allow Kammen to attempt to repair the relationship with his client. If the two are unable to overcome their differences, al Nashiri will be permitted to fire Kammen under current military commission rules.
In August 2014, al-Nashiri's military trial judge dismissed the charges relating to the M/V Limburg bombing., 129 Harv. L. Rev. 1452 (2016).  The Government appealed to the United States Court of Military Commission Review and al-Nashiri then petitioned the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit for a writ of mandamus disqualifying the military judges.  In June 2015, Circuit Judge Karen L. Henderson, joined by Judges Judith W. Rogers and Nina Pillard denied al-Nashiri's petition., 791 F.3d 71 (D.C. Cir. 2015).
Al-Nashiri then sued President Barack Obama in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, seeking an injunction preventing proceedings in his military commission trial until his writ of habeas corpus had been resolved., 130 Harv. L. Rev. 1249 (2017).  In December 2014, U.S. District Judge Richard W. Roberts held the case in abeyance pending resolution of al-Nashiri's military commission trial and so denied as moot al-Nashiri's lawsuit against the President., 76 F. Supp. 3d 218 (D.D.C. 2014)  Judge Roberts reasoned that the abstention doctrine announced in ''Schlesinger v. Councilman'' (1975), which required judicial review of an ongoing court-martial to wait until it is completed, also applied to al-Nashiri's military commission.  In August 2016, D.C. Circuit Judge Thomas B. Griffith, joined by Judge David B. Sentelle, affirmed that judgment, over the dissent of Judge David S. Tatel., 835 F.3d 110 (D.C. Cir. 2016).
On October 18, 2016, new Military Judge, Air Force Col Vance Spath took a step that Stephen Vladeck, a law Professor, and national security expert described as ''"unprecedented"''.  Spath had United States Marshalls take Stephen Gill, into custody, to compel him to testify at a pre-trial hearing.  
On July 24, 2014 the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Poland violated the European Convention on Human Rights when it cooperated with US allowing the CIA to hold and torture al-Nashiri and Abu Zubaydah on its territory in 2002-2003. The court ordered the Polish government to pay each of the men 100,000 euros in damages.https://www.wsj.com/articles/eu-court-rules-against-poland-in-cia-rendition-case-1406193988
}}
* April 22, 2011
* Deutsche Welle, October 8, 2010
* September 22, 2010
*  September 7, 2010
*  The News, January 28, 2010
* 
*  March 30, 2007
*  Washington Post May 4, 2008
*- Al Jazeera English report about the case of al-Nashiri (video, 22 mins)
* 
#redirect Sana'a school shooting
   
   
   
   
   
'''Tevfik Rüstü Aras''' (1883 in Çanakkale – January 5, 1972 in Istanbul) was a Turkish politician, serving as deputy and foreign minister of Turkey during the Atatürk era (1920-1938).
He graduated from the medical school of Beirut. He served as a doctor in Izmir, Istanbul, and Thessaloniki ( ). He became a member of the Committee of Union and Progress, and during his membership he met Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the founder of the Republic of Turkey.
In 1918, he was a member of the high commission of health (). At that time he married the journalist Evliyazade Makbule, who was the daughter of a wealthy family from Izmir.
The Turkish Grand National Assembly (TGNA) opened in 1920. Aras was elected to the parliament from Mugla. In his first period as a Member of Parliament (MP), he was appointed to the Independence Court of Kastamonu. In the autumn of 1920, he became one of the founders of the Communist Party of Turkey. Tevfik Rustu visited the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic with Ali Fuat Cebesoy, when Mr. Cebesoy  was appointed as ambassador to Moscow. He served as MP for Izmir in the second, third, fourth and fifth periods of TGNA, between 1923 and 1939.
When the Law on the Maintenance of Order was effected on March 4, 1925, he was the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the third Ismet Inönü government. He stayed in office by keeping his position in all the cabinets until Atatürk died. He implemented Atatürk's foreign policy, held good relations with neighbouring countries and opposition to hegemonic powers. He visited Russia three times at the invitation of Maxim Litvinov, the Foreign Minister of Russia. These visits took place in 1926 (Odessa), and in 1936 and 1937 (Moscow).
Aras was elected as the president of League of Nations during the Special Session of the Assembly Convened for the Purpose of Considering the Request of the Kingdom of Egypt for Admission to the League of Nations in Geneva, on May 26-May 27, 1937. He was appointed as ambassador to the United Kingdom in 1939 and stayed in London for three and a half years. He retired in 1943 and published some stories in the Istanbul press (especially in the newspaper Tan).  He supported the establishment of the Democratic Party (Turkey, historical)|Democratic Party. He took office as chairman of the board of Turkiye Is Bankasi, a Turkish Bank.
The speeches he gave during his ministerial period were collected in a book called "10 Years in Pursuit of Lausanne" ().
He died in on January 5, 1972 in Istanbul, and was laid to rest at the Asiyan Asri Cemetery.
Tevfik Rüstü Aras was the brother-in-law of Nazim Bey, one of the chief organizers of the Armenian genocide. Tevfik Rüstü Aras became Inspector-General of Health Services and was given the task to destroy the bodies of Armenian victims of the genocide. He organized the disposal of Armenian corpses with thousands of kilos of lime over six months.Baron, Jeremy Hugh. "Genocidal Doctors". ''Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine''. November 1999, 92, pp. 590-93. The bodies were dumped into wells which were then filled with lime and sealed with soil. Tevfik Rüstü Aras was given six months to complete the task, after which he returned to Istanbul.Archive of the Armenian Partiarchate of Jerusalem, Box 21, File M, Document no. 249 H.W. Glockner, a British POW, wrote in his memoirs that he had seen the bodies of murdered Armenians in Urfa thrown into large ditches and covered with lime, just as Tevfik Rüstü Aras has been instructed to do.H.W. Glockner, Interned in Turkey 1914-1918 (Beirut, 1969), pg. 47
'''Cherkes Ahmet''' was the leader of Ottoman Turkey's state-sponsored paramilitary marauders of supposedly Circassian origin during World War I. Cherkes Ahmet was from Serres, Macedonia. He was notoriously responsible for the murder of the well-known Armenian writer, literary critic and politician Krikor Zohrab and politician Vartkes Serengülian during the Armenian Genocide.
'''Ion Victor Antonescu''' (; June 15, 1882 - June 1, 1946) was a Romanian soldier and authoritarian politician who, as the Prime Minister and ''Conducator'' during most of World War II, presided over two successive wartime dictatorships.  After the war, he was convicted of war crimes and executed.
A Romanian Army career officer who made his name during the 1907 Romanian Peasants' Revolt|1907 peasants' revolt and the World War I Romanian Campaign, the antisemitic Antonescu sympathized with the far right and fascist National Christian and Iron Guard groups for much of the interwar period. He was a military attaché to France and later Chief of the General Staff, briefly serving as Defense Minister in the National Christian cabinet of Octavian Goga. During the late 1930s, his political stance brought him into conflict with King Carol II and led to his detainment. Antonescu nevertheless rose to political prominence during the political crisis of 1940, and established the National Legionary State, an uneasy partnership with the Iron Guard's leader Horia Sima. After entering Romania into an alliance with Nazi Germany and the Axis and ensuring Adolf Hitler's confidence, he eliminated the Guard during the Legionnaires' rebellion and Bucharest pogrom|Legionary Rebellion of 1941. In addition to leadership of the executive, he assumed the offices of Foreign Affairs and Defense Minister. Soon after Romania joined the Axis in Operation Barbarossa, recovering Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina, Antonescu also became Marshal of Romania.
An atypical figure among Holocaust perpetrators, Antonescu enforced policies independently responsible for the deaths of as many as 400,000 people, most of them Bessarabian, Ukrainian and Romanian Jews, as well as Romanian Romani. The regime's complicity in the Holocaust combined pogroms and mass murders such as the Odessa massacre with ethnic cleansing, systematic deportations to occupied Transnistria and widespread criminal negligence. The system in place was nevertheless characterized by singular inconsistencies, prioritizing plunder over killing, showing leniency toward most Jews in the Old Kingdom, and ultimately refusing to adopt the Final Solution as applied throughout Nazi-occupied Europe.
Confronted with heavy losses on the Eastern Front, Antonescu embarked on inconclusive negotiations with the Allies, just before a political coalition, formed around the young monarch Michael I, toppled him during the King Michael's Coup|August 23, 1944, Coup. After a brief detention in the Soviet Union, the deposed ''Conducator'' was handed back to Romania, where he was tried by a special Romanian People's Tribunals|People's Tribunal and executed. This was part of a series of trials that also passed sentences on his various associates, as well as his wife Maria. The judicial procedures earned much criticism for responding to the Romanian Communist Party's ideological priorities, a matter that fueled nationalist and far right attempts to have Antonescu posthumously exonerated. While these groups elevated Antonescu to the status of hero, his involvement in the Holocaust was officially reasserted and condemned following the 2003 Wiesel Commission report.
Born in the town of Pite?ti, north-west of the capital Bucharest, Antonescu was the scion of an upper-middle class Romanian Orthodox family with some military tradition.Deletant, p.37 He was especially close to his mother, Li?a Baranga, who survived his death.Deletant, pp.70, 257 His father, an army officer, wanted Ion to follow in his footsteps and thus sent him to attend the Infantry and Cavalry School in Craiova. During his childhood, his father divorced his mother to marry a woman who was a Jewish convert to Orthodoxy.Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 page 465. The breakup of his parents' marriage was a traumatic event for the young Antonescu, and he made no secret of his dislike of his stepmother, whom he always depicted as a ''femme fatale'' who destroyed what he saw as his parents' happy marriage.
According to one account, Ion Antonescu was briefly a classmate of Wilhelm Filderman, the future Romanian Jewish community activist whose interventions with ''Conducator'' Antonescu helped save a number of his coreligionists.Penkower, pp.152-153 After graduation, in 1904, Antonescu joined the Romanian Army with the rank of Second Lieutenant. He spent the following two years attending courses at the Special Cavalry Section in Târgovi?te. Reportedly, Antonescu was a zealous and goal-setting student, upset by the slow pace of promotions, and compensated for his diminutive stature through toughness. Delia Radu, , BBC Romanian edition, August 1, 2008 In time, the reputation of being a tough and ruthless commander, together with his reddish hair, earned him the nickname ''Câinele Ro?u'' ("The Red Dog"). Antonescu also developed a reputation for questioning his commanders and for appealing over their heads whenever he felt they were wrong.
During the repression of the 1907 Romanian Peasants' Revolt|1907 peasants' revolt, he headed a cavalry unit in Covurlui County. Opinions on his role in the events diverge: while some historians believe Antonescu was a particularly violent participant in quelling the revolt,Veiga, p.301 others equate his participation with that of regular officers or view it as outstandingly tactful. In addition to restricting peasant protests, Antonescu's unit subdued socialist activities in Gala?i port. His handling of the situation earned him praise from King Carol I, who sent Crown Prince (future monarch) Ferdinand to congratulate him in front of the whole garrison. The following year, Antonescu was promoted to Lieutenant, and, between 1911 and 1913, he attended the Academia de Înalte Studii Militare din Bucure?ti|Advanced War School, receiving the rank of Captain upon graduation. In 1913, during the Second Balkan War against Bulgaria, Antonescu served as a staff officer in the First Cavalry Division in Dobruja.
After 1916, when the Kingdom of Romania entered World War I on the Entente side, Ion Antonescu acted as chief of staff for General Constantin Prezan. In August 1916, upon the start of the Romanian campaign, Romanian troops crossed the Carpathian Mountains, marching into the Austria-Hungary|Austro-Hungarian-ruled region of Transylvania, but their effort was halted when the Central Powers opened new fronts. Bulgarian and Imperial German armies decisively defeated their ill-equipped and poorly defended Romanian adversaries in the Battle of Turtucaia on (August 24) and advanced into Dobruja. When enemy troops crossed the mountains from Transylvania into Wallachia, Antonescu was ordered to design a defense plan for Bucharest.
The Romanian royal court, army, and administration were subsequently forced to retreat into Moldavia, the last portion of territory still under Romanian control. Henceforth, Antonescu took part in an important decision involving defensive efforts, an unusual promotion which probably stoked his ambitions. In December, as Prezan became the Chief of the General Staff, Antonescu, who was by now a major, was named the head of operations, being involved in the defense of Moldavia. He contributed to the tactics used during the Battle of Mara?e?ti (July-August 1917), when Romanians under General Alexandru Averescu managed to stop the advance of German forces under the command of Field Marshal August von Mackensen.Deletant, pp.37-38 Antonescu lived in Prezan's proximity for the remainder of the war and influenced his decisions.Deletant, p.38
That autumn, the October Revolution in Russia removed Romania's main ally, the Russian Provisional Government, from the conflict. Its successor, Bolshevik Russia, made peace with the Central Powers under the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, leaving Romania the only enemy of the Central Powers on the Eastern Front. In these conditions, the Romanian government signed, and the Parliament ratified, Romania's own Treaty of Bucharest, 1918|peace treaty with the Central Powers. Romania broke the treaty later in the year, on the grounds that King Ferdinand I had not signed it. During the interval, Antonescu, who viewed the separate peace as "the most rational solution", was assigned command over a cavalry regiment. The renewed offensive played a part in ensuring the union of Transylvania with Romania. After the war, Antonescu's merits as an operations officer were noticed by, among others, politician Ion G. Duca, who wrote that "his [Antonescu's] intelligence, skill and activity, brought credit on himself and invaluable service to the country". Another event occurring late in the war is also credited with having played a major part in Antonescu's life: in 1918, Crown Prince Carol (the future King Carol II) eloped and technically deserted his army posting, to marry the commoner Zizi Lambrino. This outraged Antonescu, who developed enduring contempt for the future king.
, at a skiing event in 1935
Lieutenant Colonel Ion Antonescu retained his visibility in the public eye during the interwar period. He participated in the political campaign to earn recognition at the Paris Peace Conference, 1919|Paris Peace Conference of 1919 for Romania's gains in Transylvania. His nationalist argument about a future state of the Romanians was published as the essay ''Românii. Origina, trecutul, sacrificiile ?i drepturile lor'' ("The Romanians. Their Origin, Their Past, Their Sacrifices and Their Rights"). The booklet advocated extension of Romanian rule beyond the confines of Greater Romania, and recommended, at the risk of war with the emerging Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the annexation of all Banat areas and the Timocka Krajina|Timok Valley.Haynes, pp.113, 115 In March 1920, Antonescu was one of three people nominated by the new Averescu executive to be a military attaché of Romania in France, but a report issued by the French military observer in Romania, General Victor Pétin, was negative enough to make the French side choose a certain Colonel ?u?u instead (the text referred to Antonescu as "extremely vain", "chauvinistic" and "xenophobic", while acknowledging his "great military worth"). Antonescu was known for his frequent and erratic changes of mood, going from being extremely angry to being calm to angry again to being calm again within minutes, something that often disoriented those who had to work with Antonescu. The Israeli historian Jean Ancel wrote that Antonescu's frequent changes of mood were due to the syphilis he contracted as a young man, and which he suffered from for the rest of his life.
Nevertheless, ?u?u had to leave Paris in 1922, and when the Romanian government nominated Antonescu again, the French government felt obliged to accept his nomination, despite renewed criticism from Pétin's part.Deletant, pp.38-39 At the moment of his reassignment, Antonescu was handling military instruction in the Transylvanian city of Sibiu, where his rebellious attitude was causing irritation among his commanders.Deletant, p.39 From 1923, Antonescu was also the Romanian attaché in the United Kingdom and Belgium. After embarking on his mission, he negotiated a credit worth 100 million French francs to for Romania to purchase French weaponry, and worked together with Romanian League of Nations diplomat Nicolae Titulescu; the two became personal friends. According to one account, he was also in contact with the Romanian-born conservative aristocrat and writer Marthe Bibesco, who is reported to have introduced Antonescu to the ideas of Gustave Le Bon, a researcher of crowd psychology who had an influence on fascist leaders.Jaap van Ginneken, ''Crowds, Psychology, and Politics, 1871-1899'', Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1992, p.186. ISBN 0-521-40418-5 The same story has it that Bibesco saw the Romanian officer as a new version of 19th century nationalist rebel Georges Boulanger, introducing him as such to Le Bon. In 1923, he made the acquaintance of lawyer Mihai Antonescu, who was to become his close friend, legal representative and political associate.Deletant, pp.301-302
After returning to Romania in 1926, Antonescu returned to his teaching position in Sibiu, and, in autumn 1928, was Secretary-General of the Defense Ministry in the Vintila Bratianu cabinet. He married Maria Niculescu, for long a resident of France, who had been married twice before: to a Romanian Police officer, with whom she had a son, Gheorghe (died 1944), and to a Frenchman of Jewish origin.Deletant, pp.39, 45, 290 After a period as Deputy Chief of the General Staff, he was appointed its Chief (1933-1934). These assignments coincided with the rule of Carol's underage son Michael I and his regents, and with Carol's seizure of power in 1930. During this period Antonescu first grew interested in the Iron Guard, an antisemitic and fascist-related movement headed by Corneliu Zelea Codreanu. In his capacity as Deputy Chief of Staff, he ordered the Army's intelligence unit to compile a report on the faction, and made a series of critical notes on Codreanu's various statements.
As Chief of Staff, Antonescu reportedly had his first confrontation with the political class and the monarch. His projects for weapon modernization were questioned by Defense Minister Paul Angelescu, leading Antonescu to present his resignation. According to another account, he completed an official report on the embezzlement of Army funds, which indirectly implicated Carol and his ''camarilla'' (''see Škoda Affair'').Veiga, p.281 The king consequently ordered him out of office, provoking indignation among sections of the political mainstream. On Carol's orders, Antonescu was placed under surveillance by the ''Siguran?a Statului'' intelligence service, and closely monitored by the Interior Ministry Undersecretary Armand Calinescu.Deletant, p.40 The officer's political credentials were on the rise, and he had contacts with all sides of the political spectrum, while support for Carol plummeted. Antonescu maintained contacts with the two main democratic groups, the National Liberal Party (Romania, 1875)|National Liberal and the National Peasants' Party|National Peasants' parties (known respectively as PNL and PN?). He was also engaged in discussions with the rising far right, antisemitic and fascist movements: although in competition with each other, both the National Christian Party (PNC) of Octavian Goga and the Iron Guard sought to attract Antonescu to their side.Deletant, pp.34, 40-41; Veiga, p.281 In 1936, to the authorities' alarm, Army General and Iron Guard member Gheorghe Cantacuzino-Granicerul arranged a meeting between Ion Antonescu and the movement's leader: Antonescu is reported to have found Codreanu arrogant, but to have welcomed his revolutionizing approach to politics.
In late 1937, after the Romanian general election, 1937|December general election came to an inconclusive result, Carol appointed Goga Prime Minister over a far right cabinet that was the first executive to impose racial discrimination in its treatment of the Jewish community. Goga's appointment was meant to curb the rise of the more popular and even more radical Codreanu. Initially given the Communications portfolio by his rival, Interior Minister Armand Calinescu, Antonescu repeatedly demanded the office of Defense Minister, which he was eventually granted.Deletant, pp.40-41 His mandate coincided with a troubled period, and saw Romania having to choose between its traditional alliance with France, Britain, the crumbling Little Entente and the League of Nations or moving closer to Nazi Germany and its Anti-Comintern Pact. Antonescu's own contribution is disputed by historians, who variously see him as either a supporter of the Anglo-French alliance or, like the PNC itself, more favorable to cooperation with Adolf Hitler's Germany. At the time, Antonescu viewed Romania's alliance with the Entente as insurance against Hungarian and Soviet revanchism, but, as an Anti-communism|anti-communist, he was suspicious of the Franco-Soviet Treaty of Mutual Assistance|Franco-Soviet rapprochement.Veiga, p.281, 296 Particularly concerned about Hungarian demands in Transylvania, he ordered the General Staff to prepare for a western attack.Deletant, pp.42-43 However, his major contribution in office was in relation to an internal crisis: as a response to violent clashes between the Iron Guard and the PNC's own fascist militia, the ''Lancieri'', Antonescu extended the already imposed martial law.Deletant, p.41
The Goga cabinet ended when the tentative rapprochement between Goga and Codreanu''Final Report'', p.43; Deletant, pp.34, 42; Veiga, pp.246-247 prompted Carol to overthrow the democratic system and proclaim his own authoritarian regime (''see 1938 Constitution of Romania, National Renaissance Front''). The deposed Premier died in 1938, and Antonescu remained a close friend of his widow, Veturia Goga.Deletant, p.70 By that time, revising his earlier stance, Antonescu had also built a close relationship with Codreanu, and was even said to have become his confidant.Deletant, p.42 Ilarion ?iu, , in , 14/2003-2005, at the University of Bucharest Faculty of History On Carol's request, he had earlier asked the Guard's leader to consider an alliance with the king, which Codreanu promptly refused in favor of negotiations with Goga, coupled with claims that he was not interested in political battles (an attitude supposedly induced by Antonescu himself).Deletant, pp.41-43
Soon afterward, Calinescu, acting on indications from the monarch, arrested Codreanu and prosecuted him in two successive trials. Antonescu, whose mandate of Defense Minister had been prolonged under the premiership of Miron Cristea, resigned in protest to Codreanu's arrest.Deletant, p.44 He was a celebrity defense witness at the latter's first and second trials. During the latter, which saw Codreanu's conviction for treason, Antonescu vouched for his friend's honesty while shaking his hand in front of the jury. Upon the end of procedures, the king ordered his former minister interned at Predeal, before assigning him to command the Third Army in the remote eastern region of Bessarabia (and later removing him after Antonescu expressed sympathy for Guardists imprisoned in Chi?inau).Deletant, pp.45, 293 Attempting to discredit his rival, Carol also ordered Antonescu's wife to be tried for bigamy, based on a false claim that her divorce had not been finalized. Defended by Mihai Antonescu, the officer was able to prove his detractors wrong.Deletant, pp.45, 58, 302 Codreanu himself was taken into custody and discreetly killed by the Jandarmeria Româna|Gendarmes acting on Carol's orders (November 1938).Cioroianu, p.54; Deletant, pp.35, 50; Ornea, pp.320-321; Veiga, p.257
Carol's regime slowly dissolved into crisis, the process being enhanced after the start of World War II, when the military success of the core Axis Powers and the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact|non-aggression pact signed by Germany and the Soviet Union saw Romania isolated and threatened (''see Romania during World War II''). In 1940, two of Romania's regions, Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina, were lost to a Soviet occupation consented to by the king. This came as Romania, exposed by the Fall of France, was seeking to align its policies with those of Germany.Deletant, pp.3, 10-27, 45-47; Ornea, pp.323-325; Veiga, pp.256-257, 266-269 Ion Antonescu himself had come to value a pro-Axis alternative after the 1938 Munich Agreement, when Germany imposed demands on Czechoslovak Republic (1918-1938)|Czechoslovakia with the acquiescence of France and the United Kingdom, leaving locals to fear that, unless reoriented, Romania would follow.Deletant, pp.45-46 Angered by the territorial losses of 1940, General Antonescu sent Carol a general note of protest, and, as a result, was arrested and interned at Bistri?a Monastery.Deletant, pp.46-47. Deletant notes the determining factor for this decision was Antonescu's link to the Iron Guard. While there, he commissioned Mihai Antonescu to establish contacts with Nazi German officials, promising to advance German economic interest, particularly in respect to the local oil industry, in exchange for endorsement.Deletant, pp.47, 293 Commenting on Ion Antonescu's ambivalent stance, Hitler's minister to Romania, Wilhelm Fabricius, wrote to his superiors: "I am not convinced that he is a safe man."Deletant, p.47; ''Final Report'', pp.57, 60
''
Romania's elite had been intensely Francophile ever since Romania had won its independence in the 19th century, indeed so Francophile that the defeat of France in June 1940 had the effect of discrediting the entire elite.Crampton, Richard ''Eastern Europe in the Twentieth Century and After'', London: Routledge, 1997 page 117. Antonescu's internment ended in August, during which interval, under Axis pressure, Romania had ceded Southern Dobruja to Bulgaria (''see Treaty of Craiova'') and Northern Transylvania to Hungary (''see Second Vienna Award''). The latter grant caused consternation among large sections of Romania's population, causing Carol's popularity to fall to a record low and provoking large-scale protests in Bucharest, the capital. These movements were organized competitively by the pro-Allied PN?, headed by Iuliu Maniu, and the pro-Nazi Iron Guard. The latter group had been revived under the leadership of Horia Sima, and was organizing a ''coup d'état''.Deletant, pp.48-51, 66; Griffin (1993), p.126; Ornea, pp.325-327 In this troubled context, Antonescu simply left his assigned residence. He may have been secretly helped in this by German intercession,Browning, p.211 but was more directly aided to escape by socialite Alice Sturdza, who was acting on Maniu's request.Deletant, p.48 Antonescu subsequently met with Maniu in Ploie?ti, where they discussed how best to manage the political situation.Ornea, pp.325-326. According to Deletant, also present were Maniu's assistants Corneliu Coposu and Aurel Leucu?ia. While these negotiations were carried out, the monarch himself was being advised by his entourage to recover legitimacy by governing in tandem with the increasingly popular Antonescu, while creating a new political majority from the existing forces. On 2 September 1940, Valer Pop, a courtier and an important member of the ''camarilla'' first advised Carol to appoint Antonescu as Prime Minister as the solution to the crisis.Haynes, Rebbecca " Germany and the Establishment of the Romanian National Legionary State, September 1940" pages 700-725 from ''The Slavonic and East European Review'', Volume 77, Issue # 4. October 1999 page 711 Pop's reasons for advising Carol to have Antonescu as Prime Minister who was partly because Antonescu-who was known to be friendly with the Iron Guard and had been imprisoned under Carol-was believed to have enough of an oppositional background to Carol's regime to appease the public and partly because Pop knew that Antonescu for all his Legionary sympathies was a member of the elite and would never turn against it. When Carol proved reluctant to have Antonescu as Prime Minister, Pop visited the German legation to meet with Fabricius on the night 4 September 1940 to ask that the German minister phone Carol to tell him that ''Reich'' wanted Antonescu as Prime Minister; Fabricius's promptly did just that.Haynes, Rebbecca " Germany and the Establishment of the Romanian National Legionary State, September 1940" pages 700-725 from ''The Slavonic and East European Review'', Volume 77, Issue # 4. October 1999 page 712. Carol and Antonescu accepted the proposal, Antonescu being mandated to approach political party leaders Maniu of the PN? and Dinu Bratianu of the PNL.Kelso, p.96 They all called for Carol's abdication as a preliminary measure,Ornea, pp.325-327; Roper, p.8 while Sima, another leader sought after for negotiations, could not be found in time to express his opinion. Antonescu partly complied with the request but also asked Carol to bestow upon him the reserve powers for Romanian heads of state.Deletant, pp.48-49; Ornea, pp.326-327 Carol yielded and, on September 5, 1940, the general became Prime Minister, and Carol transferred most of his dictatorial powers to him.''Final Report'', p.320; Morgan, p.85; Ornea, p.326 The latter's first measure was to curtail potential resistance within the Army by relieving Bucharest Garrison chief Gheorghe Arge?anu of his position and replacing him with Dumitru Coroama.Ornea, p.327 Shortly afterward, Antonescu heard rumors that two of Carol's loyalist generals, Gheorghe Mihail and Paul Teodorescu, were planning to have him killed.Deletant, pp.49-50, 52, 194 In reaction, he forced Carol to abdicate, while General Coroama was refusing to carry out the royal order of shooting down Iron Guardist protesters.Deletant, pp.49-50
Michael ascended the throne for the second time, while Antonescu's dictatorial powers were confirmed and extended.Cioroianu, p.54; Deletant, pp.52-55; Griffin (1993), p.126; Kelso, p.96; Roper, p.8 On September 6, the day Michael formally assumed the throne, he issued a royal decree declaring Antonescu ''Conducator'' (leader) of the state.  The same decree consecrated a ceremonial role for the monarch.Deletant, pp.52-55 Among his subsequent measures was ensuring the safe departure into self-exile of Carol and his mistress Elena Lupescu, granting protection to the royal train when it was attacked by armed members of the Iron Guard. The regime of King Carol had been notorious for been the most corrupt regime in Europe during the 1930s, and when Carol fled Romania, he took with him the better part of the Romanian treasury, leaving the new government with enormous financial problems.Crampton, Richard ''Eastern Europe in the Twentieth Century and After'', London: Routledge, 1997 pages 117-118. Antonescu had expected-perhaps naïvely-that Carol would take with him enough money to provide for a comfortable exile, and was surprised that Carol had cleared out almost the entire national treasury. For the next four years, a major concern of Antonescu's government was attempting to have the Swiss banks where Carol had deposited the assets to return the money to Romania; this effort did not meet with success. Horia Sima's subsequent cooperation with Antonescu was endorsed by high-ranking Nazi German officials, many of whom feared the Iron Guard was too weak to rule on its own.Deletant, pp.49-51; Veiga, pp.279-280. Veiga mentions in particular Heinrich Himmler, head of the ''Schutzstaffel'' organization, who, although inclined to support Sima, advised the latter to let the general take hold of government. Antonescu therefore received the approval of Ambassador Fabricius.Deletant, p.49; Ornea, pp.326-327, 339 Despite early promises, Antonescu abandoned projects for the creation of a national government,Deletant, pp.55-56; Ornea, p.326 and opted instead for a coalition between a military dictatorship lobby and the Iron Guard.Deletant, pp.52-68; Gella, p.171; Geran Pilon, p.59; Kelso, pp.96-97; Kenney, pp.92-93; Morgan, p.85; Ornea, pp.326-327; Veiga, pp.281-282, 296, 327. According to Kelso and Ornea, Antonescu was turned down by all political forces except the Iron Guard. Deletant (pp.55-56) notes that this refusal was motivated by Sima's requests, which Maniu perceived as excessive. He later justified his choice by stating that the Iron Guard "represented the political base of the country at the time."Deletant, p.55 Right from the onset, Antonescu clashed with Sima over economic questions, with Antonescu's main concern to get the economy growing to provide taxes for a treasury looted by Carol while Sima favored populist economic measures that Antonescu insisted that there was no money for.Crampton, Richard ''Eastern Europe in the Twentieth Century and After'', London: Routledge, 1997 page 118.
, Antonescu and King Michael I of Romania, 1940
The resulting regime, deemed the ''National Legionary State'', was officially proclaimed on September 14. On that date, the Iron Guard was remodeled into a One-party state|single official party. Antonescu continued as Premier and ''Conducator'', with Sima as Deputy Premier and leader of the Guard.''Final Report'', pp.43, 46, 54, 62, 109-112; Browning, p.211; Deletant, pp.1-2, 57-68; Gella, p.171; Geran Pilon, p.59; Griffin (1993), p.126; Ioanid, pp.231-232; Kelso, pp.96-97; Nicholls, p.6; Ornea, pp.58, 215-216, 327-329; Veiga, pp.281-283Peter Davies, Derek Lynch, ''The Routledge Companion to Fascism and the Far Right'', Routledge, London, 2002, p.196. ISBN 0-415-21494-7 Antonescu subsequently ordered the Guardists imprisoned by Carol to be set free.Ornea, p.215 On October 6, he presided over the Iron Guard's mass rally in Bucharest, one in a series of major celebratory and commemorative events organized by the movement during the late months of 1940.Deletant, p.59; Ornea, p.333 However, he tolerated the PN? and PNL's informal existence, allowing them to preserve much of their political support.Deletant, pp.74-75; Veiga, pp.280-281, 304
There followed a short-lived and always uneasy partnership between Antonescu and Sima. In late September, the new regime denounced all pacts, accords and diplomatic agreements signed under Carol, bringing the country into Germany's orbit while subverting its relationship with a former Balkan ally, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia.Haynes, p.102 Germans troops entered the country in stages, in order to defend the local oil industryDeletant, p.61; Browning, p.211 and help instruct their Romanian counterparts on ''Blitzkrieg'' tactics.''Final Report'', p.62; Deletant, p.61; Veiga, pp.295-296 On November 23, Antonescu was in Berlin, where his signature sealed Romania's commitment to the main Axis instrument, the Tripartite Pact.Deletant, pp.1, 2-3, 61-62, 280; Haynes, pp.102, 107; Nicholls, p.225; Veiga, p.296 Two days later, the country also adhered to the Nazi-led Anti-Comintern Pact.Nicholls, p.225 Other than these generic commitments, Romania had no treaty binding it to Germany, and the Romanian-German alliance functioned informally.Cioroianu, p.54; Deletant, pp.62, 92, 275 Speaking in 1946, Antonescu claimed to have followed the pro-German path in continuation of earlier policies, and for fear of a Nazi protectorate in Romania.Deletant, p.51
During the National Legionary State period, earlier antisemitic legislation was upheld and strengthened, while the "Romanianization" of Jewish-owned enterprises became standard official practice.''Final Report'', pp.19-20, 31, 103, 109-113, 181-183, 185-190, 202-208, 382-385; Achim, pp.163, 167; Browning, p.211; Deletant, pp.59, 62-63, 103-108, 251-252; Ornea, pp.331, 393-394; Veiga, pp.289-290, 296, 301; Kelso, pp.100-101 Immediately after coming into office, Antonescu himself expanded the anti-Jewish and Nuremberg law-inspired legislation passed by his predecessors Goga and Ion Gigurtu,''Final Report'', pp.19-20, 31, 43, 87, 116-117, 183-199, 320, 384; Deletant, pp.103-108, 131, 308-314; Ioanid, pp.231-232; Ornea, p.391; Weber, p.160 while tens of new anti-Jewish regulations were passed in 1941-1942.''Final Report'', pp.183-203, 320; Deletant, pp.103-107, 131, 308-314 This was done despite his formal pledge to Wilhelm Filderman and the Jewish Communities Federation that, unless engaged in "sabotage", "the Jewish population will not suffer."Deletant, pp.58, 104; ''Final Report'', pp.206-207 Antonescu did not reject the application of Legionary policies, but was offended by Sima's advocacy of paramilitarism and the Guard's frequent recourse to street violence.''Final Report'', pp.46, 109-113, 117-118, 181-182, 186; Ancel (2005 a), pp.32-33, 317; Deletant, pp.55-57, 58-68, 104-105; Gella, p.171; Griffin (1993), pp.126-127; Ornea, pp.332-341; Veiga, p.282; Roper, p.8 He drew much hostility from his partners by extending some protection to former dignitaries whom the Iron Guard had arrested.Deletant, p.60 One early incident opposed Antonescu to the Guard's magazine ''Buna Vestire'', which accused him of leniency and was subsequently forced to change its editorial board.Ornea, pp.334-335 By then, the Legionary press was routinely claiming that he was obstructing revolution and aiming to take control of the Iron Guard, and that he had been transformed into a tool of the Freemasonry (''see Anti-Masonry'').Ornea, pp.338-339, 341-343; Veiga, pp.291, 297 The political conflict coincided with major social challenges, including the influx of refugees from areas lost earlier in the year and a 1940 Bucharest earthquake|large-scale earthquake affecting Bucharest.Deletant, pp.21, 24, 26, 131, 139-140, 318; Veiga, pp.282-283, 290-291, 300-301, 305
Disorder peaked in the last days of November 1940, when, after uncovering the circumstances of Codreanu's death, the fascist movement ordered retaliations against political figures previously associated with Carol, carrying out the Jilava Massacre, the assassinations of Nicolae Iorga and Virgil Madgearu, and several other acts of violence.''Final Report'', pp.46, 110-111; Deletant, pp.60-61, 297-298, 302; Ornea, pp.335-341, 347; Veiga, pp.291-294, 311-312 As retaliation for this insubordination, Antonescu ordered the Army to resume control of the streets,''Final Report'', pp.110-111; Veiga, pp.293-295 unsuccessfully pressured Sima to have the assassins detained, ousted the Iron Guardist prefect of Bucharest Police ?tefan Zavoianu, and ordered Legionary ministers to swear an oath to the ''Conducator''.Ornea, p.341 His condemnation of the killings was nevertheless limited and discreet, and, the same month, he joined Sima at a burial ceremony for Codreanu's newly discovered remains.Ornea, p.341; Veiga, pp.294-295 The widening gap between the dictator and Sima's party resonated in Berlin. When, in December, Legionary Foreign Minister Mihail R. Sturdza obtained the replacement of Fabricius with Manfred Freiherr von Killinger, perceived as more sympathetic to the Iron Guard, Antonescu promptly took over leadership of the ministry, with the compliant diplomat Constantin Greceanu as his right hand.Deletant, pp.63, 301 In Germany, such leaders of the Nazi Party as Heinrich Himmler, Baldur von Schirach and Joseph Goebbels''Final Report'', pp.62-63; Veiga, pp.280, 296 threw their support behind the Legionaries, whereas Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop and the Wehrmacht stood by Antonescu. The latter group was concerned that any internal conflict would threaten Romania's oil industry, vital to the German war effort.Deletant, pp.25-27, 47, 61, 287 The German leadership was by then secretly organizing ''Operation Barbarossa'', the attack on the Soviet Union.''Final Report'', p.63; Deletant, pp.61-62, 76-78 Delia Radu, , BBC Romanian edition, August 1, 2008
 at the ''Hochschule für Musik und Theater München|Führerbau'' in Munich (June 1941). Joachim von Ribbentrop and ''Generalfeldmarschall'' Wilhelm Keitel in the background
Antonescu's plan to act against his coalition partners in the event of further disorder hinged on Hitler's approval,''Final Report'', pp.62-63, 113; Browning, p.211; Deletant, pp.62-68; Griffin (1993), p.127; Harvey, p.497; Morgan, pp.85-86, 188; Nicholls, p.225; Ornea, pp.338-339, 342, 345; Roper, p.8; Veiga, pp.295-297, 327D. S. Lewis, ''Illusions of Grandeur: Mosley, Fascism and British Society, 1931-81'', Manchester University Press, Manchester, 1987, p.228. ISBN 0-7190-2355-6 a vague signal of which had been given during ceremonies confirming Romania's adherence to the Tripartite Pact.Veiga, p.296 A decisive turn occurred when Hitler invited Antonescu and Sima both over for discussions: whereas Antonescu agreed, Sima stayed behind in Romania, probably plotting a ''coup d'état''.Deletant, pp.63-65; Ornea, pp.342-343; Veiga, pp.296-297 While Hitler did not produce a clear endorsement for clamping down on Sima's party, he made remarks interpreted by their recipient as oblique blessings.Deletant, pp.64, 299; Veiga, p.297 On 14 January 1941 during a German-Romanian summit, Hitler informed Antonescu of his plans to invade the Soviet Union later that year and asked Romania to participate.Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 page 466. By this time, Hitler had come to the conclusion that while Sima was ideologically closer to him, Antonescu was the more competent leader capable of ensuring stability in Romania while being committed to aligning his country with the Axis.
The Antonescu-Sima dispute erupted into violence in January 1941, when the Iron Guard instigated a series of attacks on public institutions and a pogrom, incidents collectively known as the "Legionnaires' rebellion and Bucharest pogrom|Legionary Rebellion".''Final Report'', pp.43, 46, 62-63, 103, 112-115, 181, 208, 382; Ancel (2005 a), pp.33, 402-403, 408; Browning, pp.211-212; Deletant, pp.64-68, 71-72; Ioanid, pp.232, 236; Ornea, pp.219, 250, 284, 343-348; Veiga, pp.297-304, 312-313; Penkower, pp.148-149 This came after the mysterious assassination of Major Döring, a German agent in Bucharest, which was used by the Iron Guard as a pretext to accuse the ''Conducator'' of having a secret anti-German agenda,Deletant, pp.64-65, 299; Ornea, p.343 and made Antonescu oust the Legionary Interior Minister, Constantin Petrovicescu, while closing down all of the Legionary-controlled "Romanianization" offices.Deletant, pp.64-65, 105-106; Ornea, p.343; Veiga, pp.297-298; ''Final Report'', p.186 Various other clashes prompted him to demand the resignation of all Police commanders who sympathized with the movement.Deletant, pp.64-65; Ornea, p.343; Veiga, p.298 After two days of widespread violence, during which Guardists killed some 120 Bucharest Jews,''Final Report'', pp.43, 46, 103, 112-115, 208, 382; Browning, pp.211-212; Deletant, pp.66, 71-72, 299-300; Ioanid, p.232; Veiga, pp.298-299, 301; Ancel (2005 a), pp.402-403 Antonescu sent in the Army, under the command of General Constantin Sanatescu. German officials acting on Hitler's orders, including the new Ambassador Manfred Freiherr von Killinger, helped Antonescu eliminate the Iron Guardists, but several of their lower-level colleagues actively aided Sima's subordinates.''Final Report'', pp.62-63, 125; Harvey, p.497; Veiga, pp.301-302, 313 Goebbels was especially upset by the decision to support Antonescu, believing it to have been advantageous to "the Freemasons".Harvey, pp.497-498; ''Final Report'', p.63
After the purge of the Iron Guard, Hitler kept his options open by granting political asylum to Sima-whom Antonescu's courts sentenced to death-and to other Legionaries in similar situations.''Final Report'', pp.63, 382; Harvey, p.498; Browning, pp.211-212 The Guardists were detained in special conditions at Buchenwald and Dachau concentration camps.Harvey, p.498; Veiga, pp.301-302; Browning, p.212; Deletant, p.87; Morgan, p.188 In parallel, Antonescu publicly obtained the cooperation of ''Codrenists'', members of an Iron Guardist wing which had virulently opposed Sima, and whose leader was Codreanu's father Ion Zelea Codreanu.Ornea, pp.329-331, 346-348 Antonescu again sought backing from the PN? and PNL to form a national cabinet, but his rejection of parliamentarism made the two groups refuse him.Deletant, pp.68, 301
Antonescu traveled to Germany and met Hitler on eight more occasions between June 1941 and August 1944.Deletant, p.280 Such close contacts helped cement an enduring relationship between the two dictators, and Hitler reportedly came to see Antonescu as the only trustworthy person in Romania,Deletant, p.62 and the only foreigner to consult on military matters.''Final Report'', pp.65, 168; Deletant, pp.1, 280; Harvey, p.498 The American historian Gerhard Weinberg wrote that Hitler after first meeting Antonescu "...was greatly impressed by him; no other leader Hitler met other than Mussolini ever received such consistently favorable comments from the German dictator. Hitler even mustered the patience to listen to Antonescu's lengthy disquisitions on the glorious history of Romania and the perfidy of the Hungarians-a curious reversal for a man who was more accustomed to regaling visitors with tirades of his own".Weinberg, Gerhard ''A World At Arms'', Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1994 pages 195-196. In later statements, Hitler offered praise to Antonescu's "breadth of vision" and "real personality."Harvey, p.498 A remarkable aspect of the Hitler-Antonescu friendship was neither could speak others' language. Hitler only knew German while the only foreign language Antonescu knew was French (in which he was completely fluent).Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011 page 214 During their meetings, Antonescu spoke in French which was then translated into German by Hitler's translator Paul Schmidt and vice versa (Schmidt did not speak Romanian). The German military presence increased significantly in early 1941, when, using Romania as a base, Hitler invaded the rebellious Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Kingdom of Greece (''see Balkans Campaign'').Deletant, pp.61-63, 75-76, 304; ''Final Report'', pp.63-64 In parallel, Romania's relationship with the United Kingdom (at the time the only major adversary of Nazi Germany) aggravated into conflict: on February 10, 1941, British Premier Winston Churchill recalled List of diplomats from the United Kingdom to Romania|His Majesty's Ambassador Reginald Hoare, and approved the blockade of Romanian ships in British-controlled ports.Deletant, pp.26-27, 75 On 12 June 1941 during another summit with Hitler, Antonescu first learned of the "special" nature of Operation Barbarossa, namely that the war against the Soviet Union was to be an ideological war to "annihilate" the forces of "Judo-Bolshevism", a "war of extermination" to be fought without any mercy and Hitler even showed Antonescu a copy of the "Guidelines for the Conduct of the Troops in Russia" he had issued to his forces about the "special treatment" to be handed out to Soviet Jews. Antonescu completely accepted Hitler's ideas about Operation Barbarossa as a "race war" between the Aryans represented by the Nordic Germans and Latin Romanians on the Axis side vs. the Slavs and Asians commanded by the Jews on the Soviet side.Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011  pages 325-326 Besides for anti-Semitism, there was an extremely strong current of anti-Slavic and anti-Asian racism to Antonescu's remarks about the "Asiatic hordes" of the Red Army.Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011  page 325 The Asians Antonescu referred were the various Asian peoples of the Soviet Union such as the Kazakhs, Kalmyks, Mongols, Uzbeks, Buriats, etc. During his summit with Hitler in June 1941, Antonescu told the ''Führer'' that he believed it was necessary to "once and for all" eliminate Russia as a power because the Russians was the most powerful Slavic nation and that as a Latin people, the Romanians had an inborn hatred of all Slavs and Jews. Antonescu went on to tell Hitler: "Because of its racial qualities, Romania can continue to play its role as an anti-Slavic buffer for the benefit of Germany." Ancel wrote that Romanian anti-Slavic racism differed from the German variety in that the Romanians had traditionally feared the Slavic peoples whereas the Germans had traditionally held the Slavic peoples in contempt.Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011  page 326 In Antonescu's mind, the Romanians as a Latin people had attained a level of civilization that the Slavs were nowhere as close to, but theoretically the Slavic Russians and Ukrainians might be able to reach under Romanian auspices, through Antonescu's remarks to Hitler that "We must fight this race resolutely" (i.e. the Slavs) together with the need for "colonization" of Transnistria suggested that he did think this would happen in his own lifetime. Subsequently, the Romanians assigned to Barbarossa were to learn that as a Latin people, the Germans considered them to be their inferiors, albeit not as inferior as the Slavs, Asians and Jews who were viewed as ''untermensch'' ("sub-humans"). Hitler's promise to Antonescu that after the war, the Germanic and Latin races would rule the world in a partnership turned out to be meaningless.
In June of that year, Romania joined the attack on the Soviet Union, led by Germany in coalition with Hungary, Finland, the Slovak Republic (1939-1945)|State of Slovakia, the Kingdom of Italy (1861-1946)|Kingdom of Italy and the Independent State of Croatia. Antonescu had been made aware of the plan by German envoys, and supported it enthusiastically even before Hitler extended Romania an offer to participate.Deletant, pp.78-80, 83 On 18 June 1941, Antonescu gave orders to his generals about "cleansing the ground" of Jews when Romanian forces entered Bessarabia and Bukovina. Right from the start, Antonescu proclaimed the war against the Soviet Union to be a "holy war", a "crusade" in the name of Eastern Orthodox faith and the Romanian race against the forces of "Judo-Bolshevism".Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011  page 436. The propaganda of the Antonescu regime demonized everything Jewish as Antonescu believed that Communism was invented by the Jews, and all of the Soviet leaders were really Jews.Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011  page 437. Reflecting Antonescu's anti-Slavic feelings, despite the fact that the war was billed as a "crusade" in defense of Orthodoxy against "Judeo-Bolshevism", the war was not presented as a struggle to liberate the Orthodox Russians and Ukrainians from Communism; instead rule by "Judeo-Bolshevism" was portrayed as something brought about the innate moral inferiority of the Slavs, who thus needed to be ruled by the Germans and the Romanians. The Romanian force engaged formed a ''General Antonescu Army Group'' under the effective command of German general Eugen Ritter von Schobert.Deletant, pp.80, 83; ''Final Report'', p.253 Romania's campaign on the Eastern Front began without a formal declaration of war, and was consecrated by Antonescu's statement: "Soldiers, I order you, cross the Prut River" (in reference to the Bessarabian border between Romania and post-1940 Soviet territory).Deletant, p.80 A few days after this, a large-scale pogrom was carried out in Ia?i with Antonescu's agreement; thousands of Jews were killed in the bloody Ia?i pogrom.''Final Report'', pp.120-126, 200, 204, 208-209, 243-244, 285-286, 315, 321, 323, 327-329; Ancel (2005 a), ''passim''; Deletant, pp.130-140, 316-317; Ioanid, p.233; Tra?ca, pp.398-399; Weber, p.167 Antonescu had followed a generation of younger right-wing Romanian intellectuals led by Corneliu Zelea Codreanu who in the 1920s-30s had rejected the traditional Francophila of the Romanian elites and their adherence to Western notions of universal democratic values and human rights.Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 pages 464 & 467. Antonescu made it clear that his regime rejected the moral principles of the "demo-liberal world" and he saw the war as an ideological struggle between his spiritually pure "national-totalitarian regime" vs. "Jewish morality".Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 page 467. Antonescu believed that the liberal humanist-democratic-capitalist values of the West and Communism were both invented by the Jews to destroy Romania. In a lengthy speech just before the war, Antonescu attacked democracy in the most violent terms as it allowed Jews equal rights and thus to undercut the Romanian "national idea". As such, Antonescu stated what was needed was a "new man" who would be "tough", "virile" and willing to fight for an ethnically and religiously "pure" Romania. Despite his quarrel with Sima, much of Antonescu's speech clearly reflected the influence of the ideas of the Iron Guard that Antonescu had absorbed in the 1930s. Antonescu's anti-Semitism and sexism went so far that he tacitly condoned the rape of Jewish women and girls in Bessarabia and northern Bukovinia by his forces under the grounds that he was going take away all of the property that the Jews had "stolen" from the Romanians, and as far he was concerned, Jewish females were just another piece of property.Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011  pages 438-439 Since the Jewish women were going to exterminated anyway, Antonescu felt there was nothing wrong about letting his soldiers and gendarmes have "some fun" before shooting them.
After becoming the first Romanian to be granted the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross, which he received from Hitler at their August 6 meeting in the Ukrainian city of Berdychiv, Ion Antonescu was promoted to Marshal of Romania by royal decree on August 22, in recognition for his role in restoring the eastern frontiers of Greater Romania.Deletant, pp.83, 86, 280, 305 In a report to Berlin, a German diplomat wrote that Marshal Antonescu had syphilis and that "among [Romanian] cavalry officers this disease is as widespread as a common cold is among German officers. The Marshal suffers from severe attacks of it every several months." Antonescu took one of his most debated decisions when, with Bessarabia's conquest almost complete, he committed Romania to Hitler's war effort beyond the Dniester-that is, beyond territory that had been part of Romania between the wars-and thrust deeper into Soviet territory, thus waging a war of aggression.''Final Report'', p.320; Boia, pp.270-271; Deletant, pp.51, 84-87, 90-91, 254; King, pp.93-94; Tra?ca, pp.377-380 On August 30, Romania occupied a territory it deemed "Transnistria", formerly a part of the Ukrainian SSR (including the entire Moldavian ASSR and further territories).Achim, pp.171, 184; Deletant, pp.86-87; Browning, p.277; King, pp.93-94; Tra?ca, p.380sqq Like the decision to continue the war beyond Bessarabia, this earned Antonescu much criticism from the semi-clandestine PNL and PN?. Insofar as the war against the Soviet Union was a war to recover Bessarabia and northern Bukovina-both regions that been a part of Romania until June 1940 and that had Romanian majorities-the conflict had been very popular with the Romanian public opinion.Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011 pages 334-335. But the idea of conquering Transnistria was not as that region had never been part of Romania, and a minority of the people were ethnic Romanian.Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011  pages 334=335. Soon after the takeover, the area was assigned to a civil administration apparatus headed by Gheorghe Alexianu and became the site for the main component of the Holocaust in Romania: a mass deportation of the Bessarabian and Ukrainian Jews, followed later by transports of Romani Romanians and Jews from Moldavia proper (that is, the portions of Moldavia west of the Prut).
The accord over Transnistria's administration, signed in Tighina, also placed areas between the Dniester and the Dnieper under Romanian military occupation, while granting control over all resources to Germany.Deletant, p.166; Tra?ca, p.384 In September 1941, Antonescu ordered Romanian forces to take Odessa, a prize he badly wanted for reasons of prestige.Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011  page 334. Russians had traditionally been seen in Romania as brutal aggressors, and for Romanian forces to take a major Soviet city and one of the largest Black Sea ports like Odessa would be a sign of how far Romania had been "regenerated" under Antonescu's leadership. Much to Antonescu's intense fury, the Red Army were able to halt the Romanian offensive on Odessa and 24 September 1941 Antonescu had to reluctantly ask for the help of the Wehrmacht with the drive on Odessa.Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011  page 335. On 16 October 1941 Odessa fell to the German-Romanian forces. The Romanian losses had been so heavy that the area around Odessa was known to the Romanian Army as the Vale of Tears. Antonescu's anti-Semitism was sharpened by the Odessa fighting as he was convinced that the only reason why the Red Army had fought so fiercely around Odessa was that the average Russian soldier had been terrorized by bloodthirsty Jewish commissars into fighting hard. When Wilhelm Filderman wrote a letter to Antonescu complaining about the murder of Jews in Odessa, Antonescu wrote back: "Your Jews, who have become Soviet commissars, are driving Soviet soldiers in the Odessa region into a futile bloodbath, through horrendous terror techniques as the Russian prisoners themselves have admitted, simply to cause us heavy losses". Antonescu ended his letter with the claim that Russian Jewish commissars had savagely tortured Romanian POWs and that the entire Jewish community of Romania, Filderman included were morally responsible for all of the losses and sufferings of the Romanians around Odessa.  In the fall of 1941, Antonescu planned to deport all of the Jews of the ''Regat'', southern Bukovina and southern Transylvania into Transnistria as the prelude to killing them, but this operation was vetoed by Germany, who complained that Antonescu had not finished killing the Jews of Transistria yet.Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011  pages 459-460. This veto was largely motivated by bureaucratic politics, namely if Antonescu exterminated all of the Jews of Romania himself, there would be nothing for the SS and the ''Auswärtiges Amt'' to do. Killinger informed Antonescu that Germany would reduce its supplies of arms if Antonescu went ahead with his plans to deport the Jews of the ''Regat'' into Transnistria and told him he would be better off deporting the Jews to the death camps in Poland that the Germans were already busy building.Ancel, Jean ''The History of the Holocaust in Romania'', Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2011  page 304. Since Romania had almost no arms industry of its own and was almost entirely dependent upon weapons from Germany to fight the war, Antonescu had little choice, but to comply with Killinger's request.
 Joachim von Ribbentrop during a 1943 visit to Germany
The Romanian Army's inferior arms, insufficient armor and lack of training had been major concerns for the German commanders since before the start of the operation.Deletant, p.77-78, 83, 94-96 One of the earliest major obstacles Antonescu encountered on the Eastern Front was the resistance of Odessa, a Soviet port on the Black Sea. Refusing any German assistance, he ordered the Romanian Army to maintain a Siege of Odessa (1941)|two-month siege on heavily fortified and well-defended positions.Tra?ca, pp.385-389 The ill-equipped 4th Army suffered losses of some 100,000 men.Deletant, pp.87-88; Tra?ca, pp.385-387 Antonescu's popularity again rose in October, when the fall of Odessa was celebrated triumphantly with a parade through Bucharest's ''Arcul de Triumf'', and when many Romanians reportedly believed the war was as good as won. In Odessa itself, the aftermath included a 1941 Odessa massacre|large-scale massacre of the Jewish population, ordered by the Marshal as retaliation for a bombing which killed a number of Romanian officers and soldiers (General Ioan Glogojeanu among them).''Final Report'', pp.150-157, 245, 321, 323; Ancel (2005 a), p.291; Deletant, pp.171-177, 248-253, 261, 276-277, 328-329; Tra?ca, p.389sqq The city subsequently became the administrative capital of Transnistria.Deletant, pp.167-168; Gella, p.171 According to one account, the Romanian administration planned to change Odessa's name to ''Antonescu''.Nicholls, p.6; White, p.175 Antonescu's planned that once the war against the Soviet Union was won to invade Hungary to take back Transylvania and Bulgaria to take back the Dobruja with Antonescu being especially keen on the former.Weinberg, Gerhard ''A World At Arms'', Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1994 page 521. Antonescu planned on attacking Hungary to recover Transylvania at the first opportunity and regarded Romanian involvement on the Eastern Front in part as a way of proving to Hitler that Romania was a better German ally than Hungary, and thus deserving of German support when the planned Romanian-Hungarian war began.
As the Soviet Union recovered from the initial shock and slowed down the Axis offensive at the Battle of Moscow (October 1941 - January 1942), Romania was asked by its allies to contribute a larger number of troops. Delia Radu, , BBC Romanian edition, August 1, 2008 A decisive factor in Antonescu's compliance with the request appears to have been a special visit to Bucharest by Wehrmacht commander Wilhelm Keitel, who introduced the ''Conducator'' to Hitler's plan for attacking the Caucasus (''see Battle of the Caucasus''). The Romanian force engaged in the war reportedly exceeded German demands. It came to around 500,000 troopsDeletant, p.2 and thirty actively involved divisions.Nicholls, p.6 As a sign of his satisfaction, Hitler presented his Romanian counterpart with a luxury car. On December 7, 1941, after reflecting on the possibility for Romania, Hungary and Finland to change their stance, the British government responded to repeated Soviet requests and declared war on all three countries.Deletant, pp.90-92 Following Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor and in compliance with its Axis commitment, Romania declared war on the United States within five days. These developments contrasted with Antonescu's own statement of December 7: "I am an ally of the [German] Reich against [the Soviet Union], I am neutral in the conflict between Great Britain and Germany. I am for America against the Japanese."Deletant, p.92
A crucial change in the war came with the Battle of Stalingrad in June 1942 - February 1943, a major defeat for the Axis. Romanian Armies in the Battle of Stalingrad|Romania's armies alone lost some 150,000 men (either dead, wounded or captured) and more than half of the country's divisions were wiped out.Deletant, pp.96-97, 99; Gella, p.171; Penkower, p.161 
The loss of two entire Romanian armies who all either killed or captured by the Soviets produced a major crisis in German-Romanian relations in the winter of 1943 with many people in the Romanian government for the first time questioning the wisdom of fighting on the side of the Axis.Weinberg, Gerhard ''A World At Arms'', Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1994 pages 460-461. Outside of the elites, by 1943 the continuing heavy losses on the Eastern Front, anger at the contempt which the Wehrmacht treated their Romanian allies and declining living standards within Romania made the war unpopular with the Romanian people, and consequently the ''Conducator'' himself. The American historian Gerhard Weinberg wrote that: "The string of broken German promises of equipment and support, the disregard of warnings about Soviet offensive preparations, the unfriendly treatment of retreating Romanian units by German officers and soldiers and the general German tendency to blame their own miscalculations and disasters on their allies all combined to produce a real crisis in German-Romanian relations." For part of that interval, the Marshal had withdrawn from public life, owing to an unknown affliction, which is variously rumored to have been a mental breakdown, a foodborne illness or a symptom of the syphilis he had contracted earlier in life.Deletant, pp.209-210, 335 He is known to have been suffering from digestive problems, treating himself with food prepared by Marlene von Exner, an Austrian-born dietitian who moved into Adolf Hitler's vegetarianism|Hitler's service after 1943.Traudl Junge, Melissa Müller, ''Until the Final Hour|Até o fim: Os últimos dias de Hitler contados por sua secretária'', Ediouro Publicações, Rio de Janeiro, 2005, pp.106-107, 191. ISBN 85-00-01682-5
Upon his return, Antonescu blamed the Romanian losses on German overseer Arthur Hauffe, whom Hitler agreed to replace.Deletant, pp.98-99 In parallel with the military losses, Romania was confronted with large-scale economic problems. Romania's oil was the ''Reich'''s only source of natural oil after the invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941 to August 1944 (Germany also had synthetic oil plants operating from 1942 onwards), and as such for economic reasons, Romania was always treated as a major ally by Hitler.  While Germany monopolized Romania's exports,''Final Report'', pp.63, 117, 168; Deletant, pp.26-27, 75; Harvey, p.545 it defaulted on most of its payments.Harvey, p.545 Like all countries whose exports to Germany, particularly in oil, exceeded imports from that country, Economy of Romania|Romania's economy suffered from Nazi control of the exchange rate (''see Economy of Nazi Germany'').Deletant, p.26; Harvey, pp.544-545 On the German side, those directly involved in harnessing Romania's economic output for German goals were economic planners Hermann Göring and Walther Funk, together with Hermann Neubacher, the Special Representative for Economic Problems.Deletant, pp.26-27 A recurring problem for Antonescu was attempting to obtain payments for all of the oil he shipped to Germany while resisting German demands for increased oil production. The situation was further aggravated in 1942, as USAAF and RAF were able to bomb the oil fields in Prahova County (''see Bombing of Romania in World War II, Operation Tidal Wave'').Chant, p.75; Deletant, p.27; Gella, p.171 Official sources from the following period amalgamate military and civilian losses of all kinds, which produces a total of 554,000 victims of the war.Gella, p.173; Weber, p.164
In this context, the Romanian leader acknowledged that Germany was losing the war, and he therefore authorized his Deputy Premier and new Foreign Minister Mihai Antonescu to set up contacts with the Allies.''Final Report'', p.252; Cioroianu, p.51; Deletant, pp.230-240, 341-344; Penkower, pp.153, 161 In early 1943, Antonescu authorised his diplomats to contact British and American diplomats in Portugal and Switzerland to see if were possible for Romania to sign an armistice with the Western powers.Weinberg, Gerhard ''A World At Arms'', Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1994 page 461. The Romanian diplomats were informed that no armistice was possible until an armistice was signed with the Soviet Union, a condition Antonescu rejected. In parallel, he allowed the PN? and the PNL to engage in parallel talks with the Allies at various locations in neutral countries.Deletant, pp.75, 231-240, 341-344; Roper, pp.8, 14 The discussions were strained by the Western Allies' call for an unconditional surrender, over which the Romanian envoys bargained with Allied diplomats in Sweden and Egypt (among them the Soviet representatives Nikolai Vasilevich Novikov and Alexandra Kollontai).Deletant, pp.231, 233-234, 236-239, 342-345 Antonescu was also alarmed by the possibility of war being carried on Romanian territory, as had happened in Italy after Operation Avalanche.Deletant, pp.234-236 The events also prompted hostile negotiations aimed at toppling Antonescu, and involving the two political parties, the young monarch, diplomats and soldiers.Deletant, pp.237-240, 343-344; Roper, p.14 A major clash between Michael and Antonescu took place during the first days of 1943, when the 21-year-old monarch used his New Year's address on national radio to part with the Axis war effort.Deletant, pp.236, 337
In March 1944, the Soviet Red Army broke the Southern Bug and Dniester fronts, advancing on Bessarabia. This came just as Henry Maitland Wilson, 1st Baron Wilson|Henry Maitland Wilson, Allied commander of the Mediterranean, Middle East and African theatres of World War II|Mediterranean theater, presented Antonescu with an ultimatum. After a new visit to Germany and a meeting with Hitler, Antonescu opted to continue fighting alongside the remaining Axis states, a decision which he later claimed was motivated by Hitler's promise to allow Romania possession of Northern Transylvania in the event of an Axis victory. Upon his return, the ''Conducator'' oversaw a counteroffensive which stabilized the front on a line between Ia?i and Chi?inau to the north and the lower Dniester to the east. This normalized his relations with Nazi German officials, whose alarm over the possible loss of an ally had resulted in the ''Margarethe II'' plan, an adapted version of the Nazi takeover in Hungary.Chant, p.124; Deletant, pp.234-235, 342
However, Antonescu's non-compliance with the terms of Wilson's ultimatum also had drastic effects on Romania's ability to exit the war. By then, Antonescu was conceiving of a separate peace with the Western Allies,Deletant, p.231; White, p.158 while maintaining contacts with the Soviets.Deletant, pp.233-234, 238-239; Kelso, p.129 In parallel, the mainstream opposition movement came to establish contacts with the Romanian Communist Party (PCR), which, although minor numerically, gained importance for being the only political group to be favored by Soviet leader Joseph Stalin.Cioroianu, pp.51-52; Deletant, pp.237-240, 343-344; Gella, p.172; Roper, pp.8-9, 13-14 On the PCR side, the discussions involved Lucre?iu Patra?canu and later Emil Bodnara?.Deletant, pp.238-240, 343-344 Another participating group at this stage was the old Romanian Social Democratic Party (1927-1948)|Romanian Social Democratic Party.Cioroianu, p.51; Deletant, pp.238-239, 344; Roper, p.14; Weber, p.156
Large-scale Allied bombings of Bucharest took place in spring 1944, while the Soviet Red Army approached Romanian borders.Deletant, pp.240, 344; Kelso, p.129; Nicholls, p.6 The Jassy-Kishinev Offensive (August 1944)|Battle for Romania began in late summer: while German commanders Johannes Frießner and Otto Wöhler of the Army Group South Ukraine attempted to hold Bukovina, Soviet Steppe Front leader Rodion Malinovsky stormed into the areas of Moldavia defended by Petre Dumitrescu's troops.Chant, pp.84, 303 In reaction, Antonescu attempted to stabilize the front on a line between Foc?ani, Namoloasa, Gala?i|Namoloasa and Braila, deep inside Romanian territory. On August 5, he visited Hitler one final time in Ketrzyn. On this occasion, the German leader reportedly explained that his people had betrayed the Nazi cause, and asked him if Romania would go on fighting (to which Antonescu reportedly answered in vague terms).Deletant, pp.239-240 After Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav Molotov more than once stated that the Soviet Union was not going to require Romanian subservience,Chant, p.124; Deletant, p.237 the factions opposing Antonescu agreed that the moment had come to overthrow him, by carrying out the King Michael's Coup|Royal Coup of August 23.Cioroianu, pp.50-55; Chant, pp.84-85, 124-125, 303; Deletant, pp.3-4, 241-246, 265-266, 343-346; Gella, p.172; Guran & ?tefan, p.112; Ioanid, pp.235-236; Kelso, p.129; Kenney, p.93; Kent, p.52; King, p.94; Morgan, p.188; Nicholls, pp.6, 166-167; Roper, pp.13-15; Weber, pp.152-154, 158-159; White, p.158; Ancel (2005 a), p.321; Bucur (2004), pp.173-176 On that day, the sovereign asked Antonescu to meet him in the royal palace building, where he presented him with a request to take Romania out of its Axis alliance.Deletant, pp.241-242; Roper, p.14 The ''Conducator'' refused, and was promptly arrested by soldiers of the guard, being replaced as Premier with General Constantin Sanatescu, who presided over a national government.Cioroianu, p.55; Deletant, pp.242-243; Roper, p.14
The new Romanian authorities declared peace with the Allies and advised the population to greet Soviet troops. On August 25, as Bucharest was successfully defending itself against German retaliations, Romania declared war on Nazi Germany.Chant, pp.84-85, 124-125, 303; Gella, p.172; Kelso, p.129 The events disrupted German domination in the Balkans, putting a stop to the ''Maibaum'' offensive against Yugoslav Partisans.Chant, p.122 The coup was nevertheless a unilateral move, and, until the signature of an armistice on September 12,''Final Report'', p.316; Cioroianu, p.51; Deletant, pp.247-248; Kelso, p.130; Nicholls, pp.167, 225 the country was still perceived as an enemy by the Soviets, who continued to take Romanian soldiers as prisoners of war. In parallel, Hitler reactivated the Iron Guardist exile, creating a Sima-led government in exile that did not survive the End of World War II in Europe|war's end in Europe.Harvey, p.498; Morgan, p.188; Veiga, pp.302-303, 313-314
Placed in the custody of PCR militants, Ion Antonescu spent the interval at a house in Bucharest's Vatra Luminoasa quarter.Deletant, pp.243-244, 345-346 He was afterward handed to the Soviet occupation forces, who transported him to Moscow, together with his deputy Mihai Antonescu, Governor of Transnistria Gheorghe Alexianu, Defense Minister Constantin Pantazi, Jandarmeria Româna|Gendarmerie commander Constantin Vasiliu and Bucharest Police chief Mircea Elefterescu.Deletant, p.244 They were subsequently kept in luxurious detention at a mansion nearby the city,Deletant, pp.244, 246; Cioroianu, p.296 and guarded by SMERSH, a special counter-intelligence body answering directly to Stalin. Shortly after Germany surrendered in May 1945, the group was moved to Lubyanka prison. There, Antonescu was interrogated and reputedly pressured by SMERSH operatives, among them Viktor Semyonovich Abakumov, but transcripts of their conversations were never sent back to Romania by the Soviet authorities.Deletant, pp.246, 346 Later research noted that the main issues discussed were the German-Romanian alliance, the war on the Soviet Union, the economic toll on both countries, and Holocaust in Romania|Romania's participation in the Holocaust (defined specifically as crimes against "peaceful Soviet citizens"). At some point during this period, Antonescu attempted suicide in his quarters. He was returned to Bucharest in spring 1946 and held in Jilava prison. He was subsequently interrogated by prosecutor Avram Bunaciu, to whom he complained about the conditions of his detainment, contrasting them with those in Moscow, while explaining that he was a vegetarian and demanding a special diet.Deletant, p.249
In May 1946, Ion Antonescu was prosecuted at the first in a series of Romanian People's Tribunals|People's Tribunals, on charges of war crimes, crimes against the peace and treason.''Final Report'', pp.317-331; Cioroianu, pp.295-296; Deletant, pp.245-261, 346-350; Frankowski, pp.218-219 The tribunals had first been proposed by the PN?, and was compatible with the Nuremberg Trials in Allied Occupation Zones in Germany|Allied-occupied Germany.''Final Report'', pp.316, 319-320, 331; Deletant, pp.247-248, 261 The Romanian legislative framework was drafted by coup participant Patra?canu, a PCR member who had been granted leadership of the Justice Ministry.Ioanid, p.235; ''Final Report'', pp.316-317; Frankowski, p.219 Despite the idea having earned support from several sides of the political spectrum, the procedures were politicized in a sense favorable to the PCR and the Soviet Union,''Final Report'', pp.313-331; Cioroianu, pp.295-296; Deletant, pp.245-261; Frankowski, pp.218-219 and posed a legal problem for being based on ''ex post facto'' decisions.Deletant, pp.248, 255 The first such local trial took place in 1945, resulting in the sentencing of Iosif Iacobici, Nicolae Macici, Constantin Trestioreanu and other military commanders directly involved in planning or carrying out the Odessa massacre.Deletant, pp.172, 248-249, 328. ''Final Report'', p.314
Antonescu was represented by Constantin Paraschivescu-Balaceanu and Titus Stoica, two public defenders whom he had first consulted with a day before the procedures were initiated.Deletant, p.251 The prosecution team, led by Vasile Stoican, and the panel of judges, presided over by Alexandru Voitinovici, were infiltrated by PCR supporters.''Final Report'', pp.313, 322; Deletant, pp.250-251 Both consistently failed to admit that Antonescu's foreign policies were overall dictated by Romania's positioning between Germany and the Soviet Union.''Final Report'', pp.320-321; Deletant, p.248 Nevertheless, and although references to the mass murders formed just 23% of the indictment and corpus of evidence (ranking below charges of anti-Soviet aggression),''Final Report'', p.321 the procedures also included Antonescu's admission of and self-exculpating take on war crimes, including the deportations to Transnistria.''Final Report'', pp.240-241, 252, 321-322; Achim, p.168; Deletant, pp.73, 252-255, 261, 276-277; Kelso, p.97 They also evidence his awareness of the Odessa massacre, accompanied by his claim that few of the deaths were his direct responsibility.''Final Report'', p.245; Deletant, pp.173-174, 252-253, 261, 276-277, 329 One notable event at the trial was a testimony by PN? leader Iuliu Maniu. Reacting against the aggressive tone of other accusers, Maniu went on record saying: "We [Maniu and Antonescu] were political adversaries, not cannibals." Upon leaving the bench, Maniu walked toward Antonescu and shook his hand.Deletant, pp.255-256, 348
Ion Antonescu was found guilty of the charges. This verdict was followed by two sets of appeals, which claimed that the restored and amended 1923 Constitution did not offer a framework for the People's Tribunals and prevented capital punishment during peacetime, while noting that, contrary to the armistice agreement, only one power represented within the Allied Commission had supervised the tribunal. They were both rejected within six days, in compliance with a legal deadline on the completion of trials by the People's Tribunals.Deletant, pp.248, 261 King Michael subsequently received pleas for clemency from Antonescu's lawyer and his mother, and reputedly considered asking the Allies to reassess the case as part of the actual Nuremberg Trials, taking Romanian war criminals into foreign custody.Deletant, pp.255-257, 349-350 Subjected to pressures by the new Soviet-backed Petru Groza executive, he issued a decree in favor of execution.Deletant, pp.256-259, 349-350 Together with his co-defendants Mihai Antonescu, Alexianu and Vasiliu, the former ''Conducator'' was executed by a military firing squad on June 1, 1946. Ion Antonescu's supporters circulated false rumors that regular soldiers had refused to fire at their commander, and that the squad was mostly composed of Jewish policemen.Deletant, pp.259, 350 Another apologetic claim insists that he himself ordered the squad to shoot, but footage of the event has proven it false.Deletant, pp.5, 259 It is however attested that he refused a blindfold and raised his hat in salute once the order was given.Deletant, p.259 The execution site, some distance away from the locality of Jilava and the prison fort, was known as ''Valea Piersicilor'' ("Valley of the Peach Trees").Cioroianu, p.296; Deletant, p.259 His final written statement was a letter to his wife, urging her to withdraw into a convent, while stating the belief that posterity would reconsider his deeds and accusing Romanians of being "ungrateful".Deletant, p.260
 to Hungary, Southern Dobruja to Bulgaria, and Transnistria under Romanian administration
Antonescu's policies were motivated, in large part, by ethnic nationalism. A firm believer in the restoration of Greater Romania as the union of lands inhabited by ethnic Romanians, he never reconciled himself to Hungary's incorporation of Northern Transylvania. Although Hungary and Romania were technically allied through the Axis system, their relationship was always tense, and marked by serious diplomatic incidents.''Final Report'', pp.171-172; Deletant, pp.61-62, 75-76, 79, 167; Haynes, pp.106-110, 120; Ioanid, p.245; Tra?ca, pp.380-385 The Romanian leader kept contacts with representatives of ethnic Romanian communities directly affected by the Second Vienna Award, including Romanian Church United with Rome, Greek-Catholic|Transylvanian Greek-Catholic clergy.Kent, p.224 Another aspect of Antonescu's nationalist policies was evidenced after the Balkans Campaign. Antonescu's Romania did not partake in the military action, but laid a claim to the territories in eastern Vojvodina (Banat (1941-44)|western Banat) and the Timocka Krajina|Timok Valley, home to a sizable Romanian community. Reportedly, Germany's initial designs of granting Vojvodina to Hungary enhanced the tensions between Antonescu and Miklós Horthy to the point where war between the two countries became a possibility.Deletant, p.76; Haynes, pp.99-100, 102-109 Such incidents made Germany indefinitely prolong its occupation of the region.Deletant, p.76; Haynes, pp.99-100, 108-110, 120 The Romanian authorities issued projects for an independent Macedonia with autonomy for its Aromanian communities,Deletant, pp.76, 326 while an official memorandum on the Timok region, approved by Antonescu, made mention of "Romanian" areas "from Timok [...] to Salonika".Haynes, p.119 The ''Conducator'' also maintained contacts with Aromanian fascists in Axis occupation of Greece during World War II|Axis-occupied Greece, awarding refuge to Alcibiades Diamandi and Nicola Matussi of the Vlach "Roman Legion", whose pro-Romanian policies had brought them into conflict with other Aromanian factions.John S. Koliopoulos, ''Plundered Loyalties: Axis Occupation and Civil Strife in Greek West Macedonia, 1941-1949'', C. Hurst & Co. Publishers, London, 1999, pp.87-88. ISBN 1-85065-381-X
''Conducator'' Antonescu thought Hitler willing to revise his stance on Northern Transylvania, and claimed to have obtained the German leader's agreement, using it to justify participation on the Eastern Front after the recovery of Bessarabia.''Final Report'', p.253; Deletant, pp.62, 85-87, 93; Tra?ca, p.379-380; ''Final Report'', pp.171-172 However, transcripts of the Hitler-Antonescu conversations do not validate his interpretation. Another version has it that Hitler sent Antonescu a letter informing him that Bessarabia's political status still ultimately depended on German decisions. In one of his letters to Hitler, Antonescu himself stated his Anti-communism|anti-communist ideological motivation: "I confirm that I will pursue operations in the east to the end against that great enemy of civilization, of Europe, and of my country: Russian Bolshevism [...] I will not be swayed by anyone not to extend this military cooperation into new territory."Deletant, p.85. Partly rendered in Tra?ca, p.378 Antonescu's ideological perspective blended national sentiment with generically Christian and particularly Romanian Orthodox traits. British historian Arnold D. Harvey writes that while this ideology seems a poor match with Nazi doctrine, especially its religion in Nazi Germany|anti-religious elements, "It seems that Hitler was not even perturbed by the militant Christian orientation of the Antonescu regime".
It is also possible that, contrary to Antonescu's own will, Hitler viewed the transfer of Transnistria as compensation for the Transylvanian areas, and that he therefore considered the matter closed.Achim, p.184; Boia, p.270; Deletant, pp.167, 326; Tra?ca, pp.380-385; White, pp.157-158 According to the Romanian representative in Berlin, Raoul Bossy, various German and Hungarian officials recommended the extension of permanent Romanian rule into Transnistria, as well as into Podolia, Galicia and Pokuttya, in exchange for delivering the whole of Transylvania to Hungary (and relocating its ethnic Romanian majority to the new provinces).Tra?ca, pp.380-382 American political scientist Charles King writes: "There was never any attempt to annex the occupied territory [of Transnistria], for it was generally considered by the Romanian government to be a temporary buffer zone between Greater Romania and the Soviet front line."King, p.93 At his 1946 trial, Antonescu claimed that Transnistria had been occupied to prevent Romania being caught in a "pincer" between Germany's ''Drang nach Osten'' and the ''Volksdeutsch'' communities to the east, while denying charges of having exploited the region for Romania's benefit.Deletant, pp.253-254
Romanian historian Lucian Boia believes that Ion Antonescu may have nevertheless had expansionist goals to the east, and that he implicitly understood Operation Barbarossa as a tool for containing Slavic peoples.Boia, pp.270-271 Similar verdicts are provided by other researchers.''Final Report'', p.253; Gella, p.171 Another Romanian historian, Ottmar Tra?ca, argues that Antonescu did not wish to annex the region "at least until the end of the war", but notes that Antonescu's own statements make reference to its incorporation in the event of a victory.Tra?ca, p.383 In addition to early annexation plans to the Southern Bug (reportedly confessed to Bossy in June 1941),Deletant, p.79 the ''Conducator'' is known to have presented his ministers with designs for the region's colonization.Deletant, pp.152-153; Tra?ca, p.383 The motivation he cited was alleged malnutrition among Romanian peasants, to which he added: "I'll take this population, I'll lead it into Transnistria, where I shall give it all the land it requires". Several nationalists sympathetic to Antonescu acclaimed the extension of Romanian rule into Transnistria, which they understood as permanent.Deletant, pp.325-326; Haynes, pp.119-120; White, p.175
 in Romania, June 1941
A recurring element in Antonescu's doctrines is racism, and in particular antisemitism. This was linked to his sympathy for ethnocratic ideals, and complemented by his statements in favor of "integral nationalism" and "Romanianism".''Final Report'', pp.116, 181 Like other far right Romanians, he saw a Jewish presence behind liberal democracy, and believed in the existence of Judeo-Masonry.''Final Report'', pp.246-247, 248, 322-323 His earliest thoughts on Codreanu's ideology criticize the Legionary leader for advocating "brutal measures" in dealing with the "invasion of Jews", and instead propose "the organization of Romanian classes" as a method for reaching the same objective. Politician Aureliu Weiss, who met General Antonescu during that interval, recalled that, although antisemitic "to the core", he was capable of restraint in public.''Final Report'', p.243 According to historian Mihail Ionescu, the ''Conducator'' was not averse to the Iron Guard's "Legionary principles", but wanted antisemitism to be "applied in an orderly fashion", as opposed to Horia Sima's revolutionary ways. Historian Ioan Scurtu believes that, during the Legionnaires' rebellion and Bucharest pogrom|Legionary Rebellion, Antonescu deliberately waited before stepping in, in order for the Guard to be "profoundly discredited" and for himself to be perceived as a "savior". In April 1941, he let his ministers know that he was considering letting "the mob" deal with the Jews, "and after the slaughter, I will restore order." Lucian Boia notes that the Romanian leader was indeed motivated by antisemitic beliefs, but that these need to be contextualized in order to understand what separates Antonescu from Hitler in terms of radicalism.Boia, p.260 However, various other researchers assess that, by aligning himself with Hitler before and during Operation Barbarossa, Antonescu implicitly agreed with his thoughts on the "Jewish Question", choosing racial over religious antisemitism.''Final Report'', pp.116, 127-128, 181-182, 184, 202-203, 323, 325, 383, 385; Deletant, pp.1, 128-129; Tra?ca, pp.388-389 According to Harvey, the Ia?i pogrom made the Germans "evidently willing to accept that organized Christianity in Romania was very different from what it was in Germany".
Antonescu was a firm believer in the conspiracy theory of "Jewish Bolshevism", according to which all Jews were supporters of communism and the Soviet Union.''Final Report'', pp.101, 209-211, 243-247, 384; Deletant, pp.15-20, 116-120, 128-129, 138, 140-141, 210-211, 259, 276-277, 318; Ioanid, pp.232-233; Tra?ca, pp.387-389; Penkower, p.182 His arguments on the matter involved a spurious claim that, during the 1940 retreat from Bessarabia, the Jews had organized themselves and attacked Romanian soldiers.''Final Report'', pp.82-86, 247, 285; Deletant, pp.15-20, 140-142, 318; Ioanid, p.232; Tra?ca, p.387. Several researchers mention violence committed by retreating Romanian troops against the Bessarabian Jews (Browning, pp.275-276; Deletant, p.18; King p.93) or the retaliatory Dorohoi pogrom (''Final Report'', pp.84-86). In part, this notion exaggerated unilateral reports of enthusiasm among the marginalized Jews upon the arrival of Red Army troops.Boia, pp.258-259; Deletant, pp.15-20; Ornea, p.394 In a summer 1941 address to his ministers, Antonescu stated: "The Satan is the Jew. [Ours] is a battle of life and death. Either we win and the world will be purified, either they win and we will become their slaves."Deletant, p.85. Partly rendered in ''Final Report'', p.244 and Tra?ca, p.388 At around the same time, he envisaged the ethnic cleansing ("cleaning out") of Jews from the eastern Romanian-held territories.''Final Report'', pp.120-122, 127-142, 169, 175-177, 321; Ancel (2005 a), pp.15-19, 291, 402; Deletant, pp.79, 116-118, 127-130, 142-150, 155-156, 319; Polonsky, p.27. The term used by Mihai Antonescu in his recommendations to the Romanian administrators is "ethnic purification", as confinement to "labor camps, where Jews and other foreigners with doubtful attitudes will not be able to exercise their prejudicial influences" (Ioanid, p.232); Achim, p.167; Browning, p.276; Tra?ca, pp.387-389 However, as early as February 1941, Antonescu was also contemplating the ghettoization of all Jewish Romanians, as an early step toward their expulsion.Deletant, p.129 In this context, Antonescu frequently depicted Jews as a disease or a poison.''Final Report'', pp.133-134; Deletant, pp.118, 206 After the Battle of Stalingrad, he encouraged the army commanders to resist the counteroffensive, as otherwise the Soviets "will bring Bolshevism to the country, wipe out the entire leadership stratum, impose the Jews on us, and deport masses of our people."Ancel (2005 b), p.234
Ion Antonescu's antiziganism manifested itself as the claim that some or all Romani people, specifically nomadic ones, were given to criminal behavior.''Final Report'', pp.225-228, 240-241; Achim, pp.168-169; Deletant, pp.189-190; Ioanid, p.234; Kelso, pp.97-98 The regime did not act consistently on this belief: in various cases, those deported had close relatives drafted into the Romanian Army.''Final Report'', p.229; Achim, p.169; Deletant, p.192; Ioanid, p.234; Kelso, pp.101, 105, 124-127 Although racist slogans targeting Romani people had been popularized by the Iron Guard, it was only under Antonescu's unchallenged rule that solving the "Gypsy problem" became official policy and antiziganist measures were enforced.''Final Report'', pp.225-226; Achim, pp.166-167; Deletant, pp.187-189 After a February 1941 inspection, Antonescu singled out Bucharest's Romani community for alleged offenses committed during the blackout, and called on his ministers to present him with solutions.''Final Report'', pp.227, 240-241; Achim, pp.168, 171; Deletant, pp.188-189, 254 Initially, he contemplated sending all Romani people he considered undesirable to the inhospitable Baragan Plain, to join the ranks of a local community of manual laborers.''Final Report'', pp.225-226; Achim, pp.168, 171; Deletant, p.188 In 1942, he commissioned the Romanian Central Institute for Statistics to compile a report on Romani demography, which, in its edited form, provided scientifically racist conclusions, warning the ''Conducator'' about alleged Romani-Romanian miscegenation in rural Romania.Kelso, p.98 In doing so, Antonescu offered some credit to a marginal and pseudoscientific trend in Romanian sociology, which, basing itself on eugenic theories, recommended the marginalization, deportation or compulsory sterilization of the Romani people, whose numeric presence it usually exaggerated.''Final Report'', pp.223-228; Achim, pp.164-168 Among those who signed the report was demographer Sabin Manuila, who saw the Romani presence as a major racial problem.''Final Report'', p.227; Achim, p.168; Deletant, pp.187-188 The exact effect of the report's claims on Antonescu is uncertain.According to Achim (pp.167-170, 179, 182-183, 185) and Deletant (pp.189-190), the measures reflected Antonescu's views on "social problems" more than a racist perspective. However, Kelso (pp.99-100) believes the report was a notable factor in the decision to deport the Romani people.
 together with Horia Sima during a mass rally in October 1940. Historians are divided on whether Romania under Antonescu was a fascist regime or merely a right-wing military dictatorship.
There is a historiographic dispute about whether Ion Antonescu's regime was fascist or more generically Right-wing politics|right-wing authoritarian, itself integrated within a larger debate about the aspects and limits of fascism. Israeli historian of fascism Zeev Sternhell describes Antonescu, alongside his European counterparts Pierre-Étienne Flandin, Francisco Franco, Miklós Horthy, François de La Rocque, Philippe Pétain and Italian King Victor Emmanuel III, as a "conservative", noting that all of them "were not deceived by a [fascist] propaganda trying to place them in the same category [as the fascist movements]."Zeev Sternhell, ''Neither Right nor Left: Fascist Ideology in France'', Princeton University Press, Princeton, 1996, p.5. ISBN 0-691-00629-6 A similar verdict is provided by German historian of Europe Hagen Schulze, who views Horthy, Franco and the Romanian leader alongside Portugal's ''Estado Novo'' theorist António de Oliveira Salazar and Second Polish Republic founder Józef Pilsudski, as rulers of "either purely military dictatorships, or else authoritarian governments run by civilian politicians", and thus a category apart from the leaders of "Fascist states."Hagen Schulze, ''States, Nations and Nationalism'', Blackwell Publishing, Oxford, 2002, p.292. ISBN 0-631-20933-6 For Schulze, the defining elements of such governments is the presence of a "conservative establishment" which ensured "social stability" by extending the control of a "traditional state" (thus effectively blocking "revolutionary suggestions" from the far left and the far right alike). The term "conservative autocrat" is used in relation to the ''Conducator'' by British political theorist Roger Griffin, who attributes to the Iron Guard the position of a subservient fascist movement,Roger Griffin, "Staging the Nation's Rebirth: The Politics and Aesthetics of Performance in the Context of Fascist Studies", in Günter Berghaus (ed.), ''Fascism and Theatre'', Berghahn Books, Providence, 1996, p.18. ISBN 1-57181-877-4. Griffin also draws direct comparisons between Antonescu's conflict with the Iron Guard on one hand and António de Oliveira Salazar's clash with the National Syndicalists (1993, pp.151-152). while others identify Antonescu's post-1941 rule as a military rather than a fascist dictatorship.Laqueur, pp.203, 205; Morgan, p.86; Roper, pp.8, 11 Several other scholars prefer "conservative" as a defining term for Antonescu's policies.Veiga, pp.281-283, 290, 296, 305, 327; White, p.158 Antonescu described himself as "by fate a dictator", and explained that his policies were "militaristic" or, on one occasion, "national-totalitarian".''Final Report'', pp.115, 323
Nevertheless, other historians theorize a synthesis of fascist and conservative elements, performed by Antonescu and other European leaders of his day. Routledge's 2002 ''Companion to Fascism and the Far Right'' uses the terms "para-fascist" to define Antonescu, adding: "generally regarded as an authoritarian conservative [Antonescu] incorporated fascism into his regime, in the shape of the Iron Guard, rather than embodying fascism himself." "Para-fascist" is also used by Griffin, to denote both Antonescu and Carol II.Griffin (1993), p.127 American historian of fascism Robert Paxton notes that, like Salazar, Romania's dictator crushed a competing fascist movement, "after copying some of [its] techniques of popular mobilization."Robert O. Paxton, "The Five Stages of Fascism", in Brian Jenkins (ed.), ''France in the Era of Fascism: Essays on the French Authoritarian Right'', Berghahn Books, Providence, 2007, p.119. ISBN 1-57181-537-6 Political scientists John Gledhill and Charles King discuss the Iron Guard as Romania's "indigenous fascist movement", remark that Antonescu "adopted much of the ideology of the Guardists", and conclude that the regime he led was "openly fascist".John Gledhill, Charles King, "Romania since 1989: Living beyond the Past", in Sharon L. Wolchik, Jane L. Curry, ''Central and East European Politics: From Communism to Democracy'', Rowman & Littlefield, Lanham, 2007, p.319. ISBN 0-7425-4067-7 References to the fascist traits of Antonescu's dictatorship are also made by other researchers.''Final Report'', pp.115-116, 237, 313, 316, 322-324, 384-385; Achim, pp.167, 180; Ancel (2005 b), pp.234, 245, 255; Boia, pp.118-119; Gella, pp.171, 172, 173; Ioanid, pp.232, 235, 237-238, 244, 245; Kenney, pp.92-93; Nicholls, p.6
The synthetic aspect of Antonescu's rule is discussed in detail by various authors. British historian Dennis Deletant, who notes that the fascist label relies on both Antonescu's adoption of some fascist "trappings" and the "dichotomy of wartime and postwar evaluation" of his regime, also notes that post-1960 interpretations "do more to explain his behaviour than the preceding orthodoxy."Deletant, pp.1-2 Deletant contrasts the lack of "mass political party or ideology" with the type of rule associated with Nazism or Italian fascism. British-born sociologist and political analyst Michael Mann writes: "The authoritarian regimes of Antonescu [...] and Franco [...] purported to be 'traditional', but actually their fascist-derived corporatism was a new immanent ideology of the right."Michael Mann, "The Sources of Social Power Revisited: A Response to Criticism", in John A. Hall, Ralph Schroeder (eds.), ''An Anatomy of Power. The Social Theory of Michael Mann'', Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2006, p.350. ISBN 0-521-85000-2 Another distinct view is held by Romanian-born historian of ideas Juliana Geran Pilon, who describes Romania's "military fascist regime" as a successor to Iron Guardist "mystical nationalism", while mentioning that Antonescu's "national ideology was rather more traditionally militaristic and conservative."Geran Pilon, p.59
, with the profiles of Romanian Army and ''Wehrmacht'' soldiers over a slogan reading ''Razboiul sfânt contra bol?evismului'' ("The Holy War on Bolshevism")
In theory, Antonescu's policies had at least one revolutionary aspect. The leader himself claimed: "I want to introduce a patriotic, heroic, military-typed education, because economic education and all the others follow from it." According to Boia, his arrival in power was explicitly meant to "regenerate" Romania, and his popularity hinged on his being perceived as a "totalitarian model" and a "savior" figure, like Corneliu Zelea Codreanu and Carol II before him.Boia, pp.316-317 The "providential" and "savior" themes are also emphasized by historian Adrian Majuru, who notes that Antonescu both adopted such ideals and criticized Carol for failing to live up to them.Adrian Majuru, , in the Romanian Cultural Institute's '''', Nr. 29/2007 Seeing his rule as legitimized by the national interest,Deletant, p.69 the general is also known to have referred to political pluralism as ''poltronerie'' ("poltroonishness"). Accordingly, Antonescu formally outlawed all political forces in February 1941, codifying penal labor as punishment for most public forms of political expression.Deletant, p.71 In Deletant's assessment, his regenerative program was more declarative than factual, and contradicted by Antonescu's own decision to allow the informal existence of some opposition forces.Deletant, pp.70-71 At the same time, some historians believe his monopolizing of power in the name of a German alliance turned Romania into either a "puppet state" of Hitler or one of Germany's Nazi-occupied Europe|"satellite" governments.Harvey, pp.544-545; Steven Béla Várady, "Hungarian Americans during World War II: Their Role in Defending Hungary's Interests", in Mieczyslaw B. Biskupski (ed.), ''Ideology, Politics, and Diplomacy in East Central Europe'', University of Rochester Press, Rochester, p.145. ISBN 1-58046-137-9; Achim, p.167 However, Deletant notes: "Romania retained her sovereignty throughout the period of the alliance [with Nazi Germany]. [...] Antonescu had, of course, his own country's interests uppermost in his mind, but in following Hitler, he served the Nazi cause."Deletant, p.1 He describes Romania's contribution to the war as that of "a principal ally of Germany", as opposed to a "minor Axis satellite."
Although he assigned an unimportant role to King Michael, Antonescu took steps to increase the monarchy's prestige, personally inviting Carol's estranged wife, Queen Mother Helen, to return home.Deletant, p.53 However, his preferred military structures functioned in cooperation with a bureaucracy inherited from the National Renaissance Front.''Final Report'', pp.31, 43, 117, 384-385 According to historian of fascism Philip Morgan: "Antonescu probably wanted to create, or perpetuate, something like Carol's front organization."Morgan, p.85 Much of his permanent support base comprised former National Christian Party members, to the point where he was seen as successor to Octavian Goga.''Final Report'', pp.31-32, 43, 116, 253, 384 While maintaining a decorative replacement for Parliament-known as ''Adunarea Ob?teasca Plebiscitara a Na?iunii Române'' ("The General Plebiscitary Assembly of the Romanian Nation") and convoked only twice-Deletant, p.72 he took charge of hierarchical appointments, and personally drafted new administrative projects. In 1941, he disestablished participative government in localities and counties, replacing it with a corporatist structure appointed by prefects whom he named. In stages between August and October 1941, he instituted civilian administration of Transnistria under Governor Gheorghe Alexianu, whose status he made equivalent to that of a cabinet minister.''Final Report'', pp.139, 141; Deletant, pp.72, 87-88, 152-153, 166-171, 277, 321-327; Tra?ca, pp.384-385 Similar measures were taken in Bukovina and Bessarabia (under Governors Corneliu Calotescu and Gheorghe Voiculescu, respectively).''Final Report'', p.139; Deletant, pp.72, 83, 87-88, 153, 277, 305, 322, 324 Antonescu strictly relied on the chain of command, and his direct orders to the Army overrode civilian hierarchies. This system allowed room for endemic political corruption and administrative confusion.''Final Report'', pp.118-119, 385; Deletant, pp.69-70, 72, 88-90, 169-170, 277, 327 The Romanian leader also tolerated a gradual loss of authority over the German communities in Romania, in particular the Transylvanian Saxon and Banat Swabian groups, in agreement with Hitler's views on the ''Volksdeutsche''. This trend was initiated by Saxon Nazi activist Andreas Schmidt in cooperation with the ''Volksdeutsche Mittelstelle'',Deletant, p.59 resulting in ''de facto'' self-governance under a Nazi systemRichard Wagner, "Ethnic Germans in Romania", in Stefan Wolff (ed.), ''German Minorities in Europe: Ethnic Identity and Cultural Belonging'', Berghahn Books, Providence, 2000, p.136. ISBN 1-57181-738-7 which was also replicated among the 130,000 Black Sea Germans of Transnistria.Deletant, p.168 Many young German Romanian men opted to join the ''Schutzstaffel'' as early as 1940 and, in 1943, an accord between Antonescu and Hitler automatically sent ethnic Germans of recruitable age into the Wehrmacht.
The regime was characterized by the leader's attempts to regulate even remote aspects of public life, including relations between the sexes. He imposed drastic penalties for misdemeanors,Achim, p.169; Deletant, pp.70-71; Frankowski, p.217 and the legal use of capital punishment was extended to an unprecedented level.Deletant, pp.71-72, 253; Frankowski, p.217 He personally set standards for nightclub programs, for the length of skirts and for women's use of bicycles, while forcing all men to wear coats in public. His wife Maria was a patron of state-approved charitable organizations, initially designed to compete with successful Iron Guardist ventures such as ''Ajutorul Legionar''.Veiga, p.305 According to Romanian-born gender studies academic Maria Bucur, although the regime allowed women "to participate in the war effort on the front in a more regularized, if still marginal, fashion", the general tone was sexist.Bucur (2006), p.182
The administrative apparatus included official press and propaganda sectors, which moved rapidly from constructing Carol's personality cult to doing the same for the new military leader: journals ''Universul'' and ''Timpul'', as well as Camil Petrescu's ''România'' magazine, were particularly active in this process. Some other such venues were ''Porunca Vremii'',''Final Report'', pp.92, 96; Bucur (2006), p.191; Deletant, pp.114, 231 Nichifor Crainic's ''Sfarma-Piatra'',''Final Report'', pp.92, 96; Ornea, pp.249-250 as well as all the seemingly independent newspapers and some ten new periodicals the government founded for this purpose.''Final Report'', pp.92-102 Among the individual journalists involved in propaganda were Crainic, Petrescu, Stelian Popescu,''Final Report'', p.97 and ''Curentul'' editor Pamfil ?eicaru''Final Report'', pp.92-93; Ancel (2005 a), p.403 (the ''Conducator'' purposefully ignored support from Carol's former adviser, corporatist economist and newspaperman Mihail Manoilescu, whom he reportedly despised).Ornea, pp.281-282, 284-285 Much of the propaganda produced during the Antonescu era supported the antisemitic theses put forth by the ''Conducator''.''Final Report'', pp.91-107, 117, 204, 284-285, 383, 385; Ancel (2005 a), pp.406-408; (2005 b), pp.231-232, 234-235; Bucur (2006), p.186; Deletant, pp.114, 138, 140; Neubauer ''et al.'', p.150; Tra?ca, pp.387, 389 Antisemitism was notable and virulent at the level of Romanian Army units addressing former Soviet citizens in occupied lands, and reflected the regime's preference for the ethnic slur ''jidani'' ("kikes").Tra?ca, pp.387, 389. Among these, Tra?ca cites (p.387): "The Romanian and German armies are fighting against communism and the kikes, not against the Russian soldier and people!" and "The war was provoked by the kikes of the entire world. Fight against the warmongers!" The religious aspect of anti-communism surfaced in such venues, which frequently equated Operation Barbarossa with a holy war or a crusade.''Final Report'', p.94; Ancel (2005 a), pp.403, 407; Deletant, pp.81-82, 83, 92-93, 101, 304-305; Harvey, p.498; Nicholls, p.225Tra?ca, p.379 Romania's other enemies were generally treated differently: Antonescu himself issued objections to the anti-British propaganda of explicitly pro-Nazi papers such as ''Porunca Vremii''.Deletant, p.54 A special segment of Antonescu's post-1941 propaganda was ''Codrenist'': it revisited the Iron Guard's history to minimize Sima's contributions and to depict him as radically different from Codreanu.Ornea, pp.320, 342-343
, stopping to unload the dead
Three weeks after gaining power and inaugurating the National Legionary regime, Ion Antonescu declared to Italian interviewers at ''La Stampa'' that solving the "Jewish Question" was his pressing concern, and that he considered himself "haunted" by the large Jewish presence in Moldavian towns.Ioanid, p.232; Ornea, p.393 Antonescu's crimes against the Jewish population were inaugurated by new racial discrimination laws: urban Jewish property was expropriated, Jews were banned from performing a wide range of occupations and forced to provide community work for the state (''munca de interes ob?tesc'') instead of the inaccessible military service,''Final Report'', pp.118-119, 197-199, 201, 206, 291-292; Browning, p.211; Deletant, pp.103, 108-113, 120, 123-124, 159, 201, 207, 211, 310-311, 381; Kelso, pp.100-101 mixed Romanian-Jewish marriages were forbidden and many Jews, primarily those from strategic areas such as Ploie?ti, were confined to internment camps.''Final Report'', pp.118-119, 184, 199-201, 206, 292-293, 381; Deletant, pp.115-116, 310 The expulsion of Jewish professionals from all walks of life was also carried out in the National Legionary period, and enforced after the Legionnaires' rebellion and Bucharest pogrom|Legionary Rebellion.''Final Report'', pp.63, 183-214, 220-221, 238, 290-291, 381; Browning, p.211; Deletant, pp.103-106, 198-199, 308-314; Ioanid, p.232; Ornea, pp.393-394 After a post-Legionary hiatus, "Romanianization" commissions resumed their work under the supervision of a National Center, and their scope was extended.''Final Report'', pp.19-20, 63, 92, 117, 168-169, 181-182, 185-195, 202-203, 238, 250, 384-385; Deletant, pp.106-108, 123, 210-211; Kelso, pp.100-101; Ornea, pp.393-394
Often discussed as a prelude to the Holocaust in Romania and in connection with Antonescu's views on "Jewish Bolshevism", the Ia?i pogrom occurred just days after the start of Operation Barbarossa, and was partly instigated, partly tolerated by the authorities in Bucharest. For a while before the massacre, these issued propaganda claiming that the Jews in Ia?i, whose numbers had been increased by forced evictions from smaller localities,''Final Report'', pp.120, 243; Ancel (2005 a), pp.17-46, 100-108, 403; Deletant, pp.130-132 were actively helping Soviet bombers find their targets through the blackout and plotting against the authorities, with Antonescu himself ordering that the entire community be expelled from the city on such grounds.''Final Report'', pp.120-123, 200, 208-209, 244, 329; Ancel (2005 a), pp.11-12, 40-46, 49-51, 57-58, 69-70, 73, 100-110, 130, 161-163, 169, 274, 325; Deletant, pp.130-134, 138 The discourse appealed to local antisemites, whose murderous rampage, carried out with the officials' complicity, resulted in several thousand deaths among Jewish men, women and children.''Final Report'', pp.120-126, 200, 204, 208-209, 243-244, 285-286, 315, 323, 323, 327-329; Ancel (2005 a), ''passim''; Browning, pp.276-277; Deletant, pp.133-140; Ioanid, pp.233, 236; Laqueur, p.206; Penkower, p.149; Polonsky, p.27; Veiga, pp.300, 312; Weber, p.167
In the aftermath of the pogrom, thousands of survivors were loaded into the so-called "death trains". These overcrowded and sealed Caile Ferate Române|Romanian Railways stock cars circled the countryside in the extreme heat of the summer, and periodically stopped to unload the dead.''Final Report'', pp.125-126, 209, 295; Ancel (2005 a), pp.12, 130, 151-344; Deletant, pp.134-137, 317 At least 4,000 people died during the initial massacre and the subsequent transports.Deletant, pp.130, 136-137; Polonsky, p.27; ''Final Report'', p.126 Varied estimates of the Ia?i massacre and related killings place the total number of Jews killed at 8,000,Deletant, pp.137, 316; Ioanid, p.233; Penkower, p.149; Polonsky, p.27 10,000,''Final Report'', pp.321, 329; Deletant, p.137; Ioanid, pp.233, 236 12,000 or 14,000.''Final Report'', pp.126, 382; Ancel (2005 a), pp.11, 15, 390-393; Deletant, p.316; Weber, p.167 Some assistance in their murder was provided by units of the German XXXth Army Corps, a matter which later allowed the authorities to shift blame from themselves and from Antonescu-who was nonetheless implicated by the special orders he had released.''Final Report'', pp.121-125, 208-209; Ancel (2005 a), pp.11-12, 15-19, 22-23, 26-33, 40-46, 49-51, 57-58, 69-70, 73, 100-110, 130, 141-154, 158-169, 238-247, 274, 290-293, 325, 422-427; Deletant, pp.137-140, 252, 276, 317; Ioanid, p.233; Tra?ca, pp.398-399. According to Ioanid, German participation in the Romanian-coordinated operation resulted in, at most, 3,000 of the deaths of a total 10,000 to 12,000. The complicity of the Serviciul Special de Informa?ii|Special Intelligence Service and its director Eugen Cristescu was also advanced as a possibility.''Final Report'', pp.121, 122; Ancel (2005 a), pp.21-22, 26-30, 50-51, 149, 328, 391, 414, 416; Deletant, pp.137, 317; Weber, p.167 The subsequent attempts at a cover-up included omissive explanations given by the central authorities to foreign diplomats and rewriting official records.Ancel (2005 a), pp.12, 158, 175-189, 317-328, 379-422; Deletant, pp.138-139; ''Final Report'', p.124
Right upon setting up camp in Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina, Romanian troops joined the Wehrmacht and the Schutzstaffel-organized ''Einsatzgruppen'' in mass shootings of Bessarabian and Ukrainian Jews,''Final Report'', pp.66, 125, 128-134, 141, 175-177; Ancel (2005 a), pp.21, 361-365, 402; Browning, pp.275-277; Deletant, pp.127-128, 143-149, 275, 314, 319-321; Ioanid, p.233; Penkower, p.149 resulting in the deaths of 10,000Browning, p.276; Ioanid, p.233 to 20,000 people.Deletant, pp.127, 314 Scholar Christopher R. Browning compares these killings with similar atrocities perpetrated by locals in ''Reichskommissariat Ukraine'', Lithuania and Latvia (''see Holocaust in Latvia, Holocaust in Lithuania, Holocaust in Ukraine'').Browning, pp.275, 276, 277. He also notes (p.275): "Hungarian soldiers seem to have largely abstained from following the German example". From then on, as the fighting troops progressed over the Dniester, the local administration deported large numbers of Jews into the fighting zone, in hopes that they would be exterminated by the Germans.''Final Report'', pp.65-66, 134-136, 176-177, 244-245, 383; Deletant, pp.128, 142-152, 171, 321-322; Polonsky, pp.27-28 Antonescu himself stated: "I am in favor of expelling the Jews from Bessarabia and [Northern] Bukovina to the other side of the border [...]. There is nothing for them to do here and I don't mind if we appear in history as barbarians [...]. There has never been a time more suitable in our history to get rid of the Jews, and if necessary, you are to make use of machine guns against them."Polonsky, pp.27-28. Partly rendered in ''Final Report'', pp.127-128; Ancel (2005 a), p.408; Deletant, pp.142-143 He also explained that his aim was: "the policy of purification of the Romanian race, and I will not give way before any obstacle in achieving this historical goal of our nation. If we do not take advantage of the situation which presents itself today [...] we shall miss the last chance that history offers to us. And I do not wish to miss it, because if I do so further generations will blame me."Deletant, p.155 He made a contradictory statement about the murder of Jews in Chi?inau, claiming that their perpetrators were "bastards" who "stained" his regime's reputation.Deletant, p.120; ''Final Report'', p.175 Antonescu saw the "war" against the Jews as being just as important as the war against the Soviet Union, and regularly demanded reports from his officers in Bessarabia and Transnistria about their measures against the Jews.Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 page 468. In late August 1941 in Tighina Antonescu called a secret conference attended by himself, the governors of Bessarabia and Bukovina and the governor-designate of Transnistria to discuss his plans regarding the Jews in those regions.
Many deaths followed, as the direct results of starvation and exhaustion,''Final Report'', pp.135-136, 244-245 while the local German troops carried out selective shootings.''Final Report'', pp.65-66, 135-136; Deletant, pp.151-152, 171 The survivors were sent back over the river, and the German commanders expressed irritation over the methods applied by their counterparts.''Final Report'', pp.65-66, 135-136, 383; Deletant, pp.150-152 Romanian authorities subsequently introduced ghettos or transit camps.''Final Report'', pp.66, 136-137, 200-201; Deletant, pp.124, 146-149, 152-153, 184-187; Ioanid, p.233 After the annexation of Transnistria, there ensued a systematic deportation of Jews from Bessarabia, with additional transports of Jews from the Old Kingdom (especially Moldavia-proper).''Final Report'', p.138sqq; Ancel (2005 b), ''passim''; Deletant, pp.116, 123-126, 141-142, 152-230, 275, 321-341; Ioanid, pp.231, 233-234; Kelso, pp.100-101; Ornea, pp.394-395; Weber, ''passim'' Based on an assignment Antonescu handed down to General Ioan Topor,''Final Report'', p.244; Deletant, pp.153, 322-323 the decision involved specific quotas, and the transports, most of which were carried out by foot, involved random murders.''Final Report'', pp.26, 139-140, 210-211; Deletant, pp.152-165, 171; Penkower, p.149; Weber, p.151 In conjunction with Antonescu's expansionist ambitions, it is possible that the ultimate destination for the survivors, once circumstances permitted it, was further east than the Southern Bug.''Final Report'', p.244; Deletant, pp.152-153, 155 On 11 October 1941, the chief of the Federation of Jewish Communities, Wilhelm Filderman issued a public letter to Antonescu asking him to stop the deportations, writing: "This is death, death for no reason except that they are Jews."Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 page 469. Antonescu replied to Filderman in a long letter explaining that because the entire Jewish community of Bessarabia had allegedly collaborated with the Soviets during the Soviet occupation of Bessarabia, his policies were a justified act of revenge.Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 page 469. On 11 November 1941, Antonescu sent Filderman a second letter stating no Jews would be allowed to live in the "liberated territories" and as for the Jews of the ''Regat'': "We decided to defend our Romanian rights because our all-too-tolerant past was taken advantage of by the Jews and facilitated the abuse of our rights by foreigners, particularly the Jews...We are determined to put an end to this situation. We cannot afford to put in jeopardy the existence of our nation because of several hundred thousand Jews, or in order to salvage some principle of humane democracy that has not been understood properly."Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 page 469.  The deportees' remaining property was nationalized, confiscated or left available for plunder.''Final Report'', pp.139-140, 185-186, 201, 244-246; Ancel (2005 b), p.232; Deletant, pp.107-108, 152-155, 207, 329 With its own Jewish population confined and subjected to extermination,''Final Report'', pp.144-146, 178-179, 382; Ancel (2005 b), p.231; Deletant, pp.127, 128, 170-171, 177-180, 314-315, 329-331; Ioanid, pp.231, 233-235, 236 Transnistria became infamous in short time, especially so for its three main concentration camps: Peciora, Akhmechetka, Bogdanovka, Domanovka and Obodovka.''Final Report'', pp.143, 146, 179, 385-386; Deletant, pp.177-184 Manned by Romanian Jandarmeria Româna|Gendarmes and local Ukrainian auxiliaries who acted with the consent of central authorities, Transnistrian localities became the sites of mass executions, particularly after the administrators became worried about the spread of typhus from the camps and into the surrounding region.''Final Report'', pp.146-150, 293; Deletant, pp.171, 177-184, 195, 323 At a Cabinet meeting on 16 December 1941 to discuss the fate of the Jews of Transnistria, Antonescu stated: "The question of the Yids is being discussed in Berlin. The Germans want to bring the Yids from Europe to Russia and settle them in certain areas, but there is still time before this plan is carried out. Meanwhile, what should we do? Shall we wait for a decision in Berlin? Shall we wait for a decision that concerns us? Shall we ensure their safety? Pack them into catacombs! Throw them into the Black Sea! As far I am concerned, 100 may die, 1, 000 may die, all of them may die"Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 page 472. Between 21-24 and 28-31 December 1941, Romanian gendarmes and Ukrainian auxiliaries killed about 70, 000 Jews at the Bogdanovca camp; the massacre was Antonescu's way of dealing a typhus epidemic that had broken out among the Jews of Transistria owing to the poor living conditions that had been forced to endure.Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 pages 471-474.  The last wave of Jewish deportations, occurring in June 1942, came mainly from the Chernivtsi|Cernau?i area in Northern Bukovina.Deletant, pp.161, 165
Also in the summer of 1942, Ion Antonescu became a perpetrator of the ''Porajmos'', or Holocaust-related crimes against the Romani people, when he ordered the Transnistrian deportation of Romanian Romani from the Old Kingdom, transited through camps and resettled in inhumane conditions near the Southern Bug.''Final Report'', pp.226-241, 250, 252; Achim, pp.168-180; Deletant, pp.187-196, 331-332; Ioanid, p.234; Kelso, pp.98, 100sqq; Weber, p.151 They were joined there by 2,000 conscientious objectors of the Inochentist church, a millennialist denomination.Deletant, pp.73, 187, 254 As Antonescu admitted during his trial, he personally supervised these operations, giving special orders to the Gendarmerie commanders.''Final Report'', pp.225-226; Achim, p.168; Deletant, pp.73, 189-190, 254 In theory, the measures taken against Romani people were supposed to affect only nomads and those with a criminal record created or updated recently, but arbitrary exceptions were immediately made to this rule, in particular by using the vague notion of "undesirable" to define some members of sedentary communities.''Final Report'', pp.226-230; Achim, pp.171-175; Deletant, pp.190-192; Kelso, pp.101, 103-104, 105, 108, 112, 124-127 The central authorities noted differences in the criteria applied locally, and intervened to prevent or sanction under-deportation and, in some cases, over-deportation.''Final Report'', pp.228-229; Achim, pp.172-173; Deletant, pp.191-192; Kelso, p.112 Antonescu and Constantin Vasiliu had been made aware of the problems Transnistria faced in feeding its own population, but ignored them when deciding in favor of expulsion.Kelso, pp.98, 100 With most of their property confiscated,''Final Report'', pp.229, 240; Achim, p.174; Deletant, p.191; Kelso, pp.101, 113 the Romani men, women and children were only allowed to carry hand luggage, on which they were supposed to survive winter.Achim, pp.173-174; Deletant, p.191; Ioanid, p.234; Kelso, pp.110-114. Ioanid mentions that 40 pounds was the accepted limit. Famine and disease ensued from criminal negligence, Romani survival being largely dependent on occasional government handouts, the locals' charity, stealing and an underground economy.''Final Report'', pp.231-236, 250; Achim, pp.175-180; Deletant, pp.192-196; Kelso, p.113sqq Once caught, escapees who made their way back into Romania were returned by the central authorities, even as local authorities were objecting.''Final Report'', pp.230, 236; Achim, pp.178, 180; Deletant, pp.191, 195-197; Kelso, pp.121-123, 127-128
The Odessa massacre, an act of collective punishment carried out by the Romanian Army and Gendarmes, took the lives of a minimum of between 15,000Deletant, p.127 and 25,000''Final Report'', pp.150, 152 to as many as 40,000Tra?ca, pp.393, 398 or even more than 50,000Weinberg, p.239 Jewish people of all ages. The measure came as the enforcement of Antonescu's own orders, as retaliation for an explosion that killed 67 people at Romanian headquarters on that city. Antonescu believed that the original explosion was a terrorist act, rejecting the possibility of the building in question having been fitted with land mines by the retreating Soviets.''Final Report'', p.151; Tra?ca, p.391 In addition, Antonescu blamed the Jews, specifically "Jewish commissars" in the Red Army, for the losses suffered by his 4th Army throughout the siege,''Final Report'', p.247; Deletant, pp.116-118; Tra?ca, pp.386-389 although both an inquiry he had ordered and German assessments pointed to the ill-preparedness of Romanian soldiers.Tra?ca, pp.386-389 While the local command took the initiative for the first executions, Antonescu's personal intervention amplified the number of victims required, and included specific quotas (200 civilians for every dead officer, 100 for every dead soldier).''Final Report'', pp.151-153, 245; Deletant, pp.171-172, 253; Tra?ca, pp.392-394. Antonescu's initial order defines the intended victims as "communists", but a later conversation with his ministers exclusively uses "Jews" for the same categories (Deletant, pp.171-172; Tra?ca, pp.393-394). By the time of the explosion, the Jewish population was already rounded up into makeshift ghettos, being made subject to violence and selective murders.''Final Report'', p.150; Tra?ca, pp.389-391
Purportedly the largest single massacre of Jews in the war's history, it involved mass shootings, hangings, acts of immolation and a mass detonation.''Final Report'', pp.151-153, 323; Tra?ca, pp.391-394. The detonation was a method of execution ordered by Antonescu personally (''Final Report'', pp.152-153; Tra?ca, p.393). Antonescu is quoted saying that the Romanian Army's criminal acts were "reprisals, not massacres". Survivors were deported to the nearby settlement of Slobidka, and kept in inhumane conditions. Alexianu himself intervened with Antonescu for a solution to their problems, but the Romanian leader decided he wanted them out of the Odessa area, citing the nearby resistance of Soviet troops in the Siege of Sevastopol (1941-1942)|Siege of Sevastopol as a ferment for similar Jewish activities.Deletant, pp.175-177; Tra?ca, pp.395-397 His order to Alexianu specified: "Pack them into the catacombs, throw them into the Black Sea, but get them out of Odessa. I don't want to know. A hundred can die, a thousand can die, all of them can die, but I don't want a single Romanian official or officer to die."Deletant, p.176; Tra?ca, p.396. Partly rendered in ''Final Report'', p.246 Defining the presence of Jews in occupied Odessa as "a crime", Antonescu added: "I don't want to stain my activity with such lack of foresight."Tra?ca, p.396 As a result of this, around 35,000-40,000 Jewish people were deported out of Odessa area and into other sectors of Transnistria.''Final Report'', pp.150, 153-157, 323; Deletant, pp.177, 329; Tra?ca, pp.397-398 Several thousands were purposefully driven into Berezivka and other areas inhabited by the Black Sea Germans, where ''Selbstschutz'' organizations massacred them.''Final Report'', pp.153-168, 246, 248; Deletant, pp.182-184
 report of 1942, accounting for 24,686 Romani deportees to Transnistria
A common assessment ranks Antonescu's Romania as second only to Nazi Germany in its antisemitic extermination policies.''Final Report'', p.382; Deletant, p.127; Oldson, p.3 According to separate works by historians Dennis Deletant and Adrian Cioroianu, the flaws of Antonescu's 1946 trial notwithstanding, his responsibility for war crimes was such that he would have been equally likely to be found guilty and executed in a Western Allied jurisdiction.Cioroianu, p.296; Deletant, pp.260-261 The often singular brutality of Romanian-organized massacres was a special topic of reflection for Jewish Holocaust escapee and American political theorist Hannah Arendt, as discussed in her 1963 work ''Eichmann in Jerusalem''.Oldson, pp.2-5 Official Romanian estimates made in 2003 by the Wiesel Commission mention that between 280,000 and 380,000 Jews were killed by Romanian authorities under Antonescu's rule.''Final Report'', pp.179, 381; Weber, pp.150-151 , BBC Romanian edition, February 23, 2007 The Transnistria deportations account for 150,000 to 170,000 individual expulsions of Jews from Romania proper, of whom some 90,000-120,000 never returned.''Final Report'', p.382; Deletant, p.127; Ornea, p.394; Weber, p.151 According to Romanian-born Israeli historian Jean Ancel, the Transnistria deportations from other areas account for around 145,000 deaths, while the number of local Transnistrian Jews killed could be as high as 280,000.Ancel (2005 b), p.231 More conservative estimates for the latter number mention some 130,000-180,000 victims.''Final Report'', p.382; Deletant, pp.127-128 Other overall estimates speak of 200,000Ramet, p.173 to over 300,000Deletant, pp.2, 127, 171, 314; Laqueur, p.206; Polonsky, p.28; Weber, pp.150-151, 164 Jews purposefully killed as a result of Romania's action. According to historians Antony Polonsky and Joanna B. Michlic: "none of these massacres was carried out by the Germans, although [the latter] certainly encouraged such actions and, in some cases, may have coordinated them."Polonsky, p.28 The Romani deportations affected some 25,000 people, at least 11,000 of whom died in Transnistria.''Final Report'', pp.226, 230, 235-237, 241, 382; Achim, pp.169, 174-175, 179, 182; Deletant, pp.4, 6, 171, 195, 254; Ioanid, p.234; Kelso, pp.109, 130. The authorities themselves counted 24,686 deportees (''Final Report'', p.230; Kelso, p.109). Around 6,000 survivors were recorded alive by late 1944 (Achim, p.179; Deletant, p.195; Kelso, p.130). However, the actual number of survivors may in theory be twice as high (''Final Report'', p.236; Achim, p.179; Deletant, pp.4, 6, 195).
The Jewish population in the Old Kingdom, numbering between 300,000 and 400,000 people, survived the Holocaust almost intact.''Final Report'', pp.68-69, 117-118, 168-172, 243, 249, 383, 385-386; Boia, pp.260-261; Deletant, pp.2, 4, 114-115, 205-229, 235, 334; Ioanid, pp.232, 233, 235; Oldson, pp.4-11, 161-163; Ornea, pp.394-395; Ancel, p.231; Penkower, p.148sqq. In these definitions, the Romanian Old Kingdom also includes areas of Transylvania and Bukovina still under Romanian rule after 1940. Reflecting on this fact, Lucian Boia noted that Antonescu could not "decently" be viewed as a rescuer of Jews, but that there still is a fundamental difference between the effects of his rule and those of Hitler's, concluding that the overall picture is not "completely dark."Boia, pp.260-261 For Dennis Deletant, this situation is a "major paradox" of Antonescu's time in power: "more Jews survived under [Antonescu's] rule than in any other country within Axis Europe." American historian of Romania William O. Oldson views Antonescu's policies as characterized by "violence, inconsistency and inanity",Oldson, p.162 but places them in the wider context of local antisemitism, noting some ideological exceptions from their respective European counterparts. These traits, he argues, became "providential" for the more assimilated Jewish communities of the Old Romanian Kingdom, while exposing Jews perceived as foreign.Oldson, pp.4-11, 161-163; Deletant, pp.275, 354 Discussing Antonescu's policy of ethnic cleansing, Polonksy and Mihlic note: "[it] raises important questions about the thin line between the desire to expel an unwanted minority and a small-scale genocidal project under sanctioned conditions." American military historian Gerhard L. Weinberg made reference to the Antonescu regime's "slaughter of large number of Jews in the areas ceded to the Soviet Union in 1940 when those areas were retaken in 1941 as well as in [...] Transnistria", but commented: "the government of Marshal Ion Antonescu preferred to rob and persecute Jews [from Romania]; the government would not turn them over to the Germans for killing."
: Jewish deportees killed outside Kotovsk, Ukraine|Brizula
Alongside the noticeable change in fortunes on the Eastern Front, a main motivator for all post-1943 changes, noted by various historians, was the manifold financial opportunity of Jewish survival.''Final Report'', pp.68-69, 117-118, 120, 168, 171-172, 201, 210, 253-254, 385; Ancel (2005 b), pp.231-232, 234-235; Deletant, pp.100-101, 112-113, 121-124, 125, 206, 213-214, 311; Oldson, pp.7-8, 10-11, 162; Ornea, pp.394-395; Penkower, pp.148, 153-155; Weinberg, p.239 Wealthier Jews were financially extorted in order to avoid community work and deportation, and the work of some professionals was harnessed by the public sector, and even by the Army.''Final Report'', pp.117-118, 120, 201, 210-217, 385; Deletant, pp.108-114, 123-124, 311 From the beginning, the regime had excepted from deportations some Jews who were experts in fields such as forestry and chemistry, and some others were even allowed to return despite antisemitic protests in their home provinces.Ancel (2005 b), pp.231-232, 234-235. Ancel places blame for the discontent provoked among locals on Antonescu's earlier propaganda themes. Economic exploitation was institutionalized in late 1941-early 1942, with the creation of a Central Jewish Office. Supervised by Commissioner Radu Lecca and formally led by the Jewish intellectuals Nandor Gingold and Henric Streitman, it collected funds which were in part redirected toward Maria Antonescu's charities.''Final Report'', pp.201, 212-217; Deletant, pp.120-124, 213-214, 216, 312-313 Small numbers of Romanian Jews left independently for the Palestine as early as 1941, but British opposition to Zionist plans made their transfer perilous (one notorious example of this being the Struma disaster|MV ''Struma'').Deletant, pp.213-219, 337-338; Penkower, pp.149-152, 154-157, 161-163 On a personal level, Antonescu's encouragement of crimes alternated with periods when he gave in to the pleas of Jewish community leader Wilhelm Filderman.''Final Report'', pp.120, 200, 207-210, 247; Deletant, pp.71-72, 114, 120-122, 125, 216, 311, 317-318; Ioanid, p.234; Penkower, pp.152-153, 157, 161, 169-170 In one such instance, he reversed his own 1942 decision to impose the wearing of yellow badges,''Final Report'', pp.120, 200, 209-210, 247; Deletant, pp.114, 311; Ioanid, p.234 which nevertheless remained in use everywhere outside the Old Kingdom and, in theory, to any Romanian Jews elsewhere in Axis-controlled Europe.''Final Report'', pp.120, 200; Deletant, pp.114-115, 124, 184 Assessing these contradictions, commentators also mention the effect of Allied promises to prosecute those responsible for genocide throughout Europe.Deletant, pp.118-119; Ioanid, p.234 In the late stages of the war, Antonescu was attempting to shift all blame for crimes from his regime''Final Report'', pp.251-252; Penkower, p.161 while accusing Jews of "bring[ing] destruction upon themselves".Deletant, p.119
The regime permitted non-deported Romanian Jews and American charities to send humanitarian aid into Transnistrian camps, a measure it took an interest in enforcing in late 1942.''Final Report'', pp.218, 383-384; Deletant, p.100 Deportations of Jews ceased altogether in October of the same year. A common explanation historians propose for this reassessment of policies is the change in Germany's fortunes on the Eastern Front, with mention that Antonescu was considering using the Jewish population as an asset in his dealings with the Western Allies.''Final Report'', pp.252-253; Ancel (2005 b), pp.231-234; Deletant, pp.100-101; Ornea, p.394; Penkower, pp.153, 161. The decision appears to have been taken by Mihai Antonescu at a time when the leader was incapacitated by his 1942 disease (Deletant, pp.209-211). It nevertheless took the regime more than a year to allow more selective Jewish returns from Transnistria, including some 2,000 orphans.''Final Report'', pp.218-220, 251-252, 383-384; Ancel (2005 b), pp.232-234; Deletant, pp.118-119, 203-204, 215-225, 338-340 After Transnistria's 1944 evacuation, Antonescu himself advocated the creation of new camps in Bessarabia.Deletant, pp.116-117, 119 In conversations with his cabinet, the ''Conducator'' angrily maintained that surviving Jews were better off than Romanian soldiers.Deletant, pp.118-120, 276
The policies applied in respect to the Romani population were ambivalent: while ordering the deportation of those he considered criminals, Ion Antonescu was taking some interest in improving the lives of Romani laborers of the Baragan Plain.''Final Report'', pp.237-238; Achim, pp.169-170 According to Romanian historian Viorel Achim, although it had claimed the existence of a "Gypsy problem", the Antonescu regime "did not count it among its priorities."Achim, p.170 By 1943, Antonescu was gradually allowing those deported to return home. Initially, Constantin Vasiliu allowed the families of soldiers to appeal their deportation on a selective basis.''Final Report'', p.229; Kelso, pp.124-127 Romanian authorities also appear to have been influenced by the objections of Nazi administrators in the ''Reichskommissariat Ukraine'', who feared that the newly arrived population would outnumber local Germans.Achim, pp.184-185 By January 1944, the central authorities ordered local ones not to send back apprehended fugitives,Achim, p.180; Kelso, pp.128-129 instructed them to provide these with some food and clothing, and suggested corporal punishment for Romani people who did not adhere to a behavioral code.Kelso, pp.128-129 As the Romanian administrators abandoned Transnistria, most survivors from the group returned on their own in summer 1944.''Final Report'', pp.236-237, 240-241; Achim, p.180; Kelso, pp.129-130
Ion Antonescu and his subordinates were for long divided on the issue of the Final Solution, as applied in territories under direct Nazi control from 1941. At an early stage, German attempts to impose the RSHA's direct control over Old Kingdom Jews drew some objections from Mihai Antonescu, but the two sides agreed to a common policy with reference to Soviet Jews.''Final Report'', pp.63-65, 126-127 In various of his early 1940s statements, Ion Antonescu favorably mentions the Axis goal of eliminating the Jewish presence in the event of victory.''Final Report'', pp.133-134; Deletant, pp.116, 118, 128, 151 The unrestrained character of some Romanian actions toward Jews alarmed Nazi officials, who demanded a methodical form of extermination.''Final Report'', pp.66, 133, 134, 383; Browning, pp.276-277; Deletant, pp.146, 150-151, 177; Ioanid, p.235; Oldson, pp.2, 10; Penkower, p.149 When confronted with German decisions to push back Jews he had expelled before the occupation of Transnistria, Antonescu protested, arguing that he had conformed with Hitler's decisions regarding "eastern Jews".''Final Report'', pp.66, 136; Deletant, pp.128, 151 In August 1941, in preparation for the Final Solution's universal application, Hitler remarked: "As for the Jewish question, today in any case one could say that a man like Antonescu, for example, proceeds much more radically in this manner than we have done until now. But I will not rest or be idle until we too have gone all the way with the Jews."Browning, p.320. Partly rendered in ''Final Report'', p.140.
By summer 1942, German representatives in Romania obtained Antonescu's approval to deport the remaining Jewish population to extermination camps in Occupation of Poland (1939-1945)|occupied Poland.''Final Report'', pp.66-69, 167-172, 243, 249, 286, 383; Deletant, pp.205-215, 334-336; Ioanid, p.234; Weber, p.150 Among those involved on the German side were mass murderer Adolf Eichmann and his aide Gustav Richter,''Final Report'', pp.66-69, 172; Deletant, pp.205, 209, 212, 334-335; Ioanid, pp.234, 235; Penkower, p.152 while the Romanian side was represented by Jewish Affairs Commissioner Lecca (reporting to Antonescu himself).''Final Report'', pp.67-69; Deletant, pp.208-211; Penkower, pp.152-153 Richter directed Lecca in setting up the Central Jewish Office, which he assumed would function as a ''Judenrat'' to streamline extermination policies.''Final Report'', p.67; Deletant, pp.121-122, 124 According to such plans, only some 17,000 Jews, labeled useful to Romania's economy, were to be exempt.''Final Report'', p.171 The transports had already been announced to the Caile Ferate Române|Romanian Railways by autumn 1942, but the government eventually decided to postpone these measures indefinitely as was done with most other deportations to Transnistria.''Final Report'', pp.69, 171-172, 243, 249, 383; Deletant, pp.127, 208-215, 334-336; Penkower, pp.152-153 Antonescu's new orders on the matter were brought up in his conversations with Hitler at Schloss Klessheim, where both leaders show themselves aware of the fate awaiting Jewish deportees to Poland.Deletant, pp.1, 214-215 By then, German authorities charged with applying the Final Solution in Eastern Europe completely abandoned their plans with respect to Romania.''Final Report'', pp.69, 253; Weinberg, pp.239-240 In August 1942, Antonescu had worked out plans with the SS for deporting all of the Jews of the ''Regat'' or the "Old Kingdom" to the German-run death camps in Poland, but then cancelled the deportation.Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 pages 475-476. The principal reasons for his change of mind were signs of disapproval from court circles, a warning from the American government passed on by the Swiss ambassador that he would prosecuted for war crimes and crimes against humanity after the Allies had won if the deportation went ahead, and most importantly because Hitler would not undo the Second Vienna Award and return northern Transylvania to Romania.Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 page 476. Antonescu saw the deportation of the Jews of the ''Regat'' as the ''pro quid quo'' for the return of Transylvania and unable to obtain satisfactory promises from the German Ambassador Baron Manfred von Killinger that Romania would be rewarded with the return of Transylvania in exchange for handing over its Jews, Antonescu cancelled the deportation until the Germans would make him a better offer.Ancel, Jean "Antonescu and the Jews" pages 463-479 from ''The Holocaust and History The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed and the Reexamined'' edited by Michael Berenbaum and Abraham Peck, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998 page 476.
According to Oldson, by the final stage of the war Romania rejected "all extreme measures against Jews who could not be proven to be communists."Oldson, p.7 The planned transports to Palestine, the prospect of which irritated Nazi German observers, implied a hope that the Allies' focus would shift away from the regime's previous guilt and, at the same time, looked forward to payments to be made in exchange for each person saved.''Final Report'', pp.68-69, 168-172, 252-253, 384; Deletant, pp.211, 213-219; Oldson, p.7; Weinberg, pp.239-240. In February 1943, Romanian officials announced to the world that they were going to allow "70,000 Jews" to depart from Transnistria to Palestine on ships with Vatican insignia, in exchange for payments. The project was sabotaged by the Nazis, reportedly upon the request of Mohammad Amin al-Husayni, the fugitive Grand Mufti of Jerusalem. Antonescu later approached the Red Cross for similar transfer efforts, including the ill-fated ship . (Penkower, pp.148, 153-155, 157; Deletant, pp.213-218). The contrary implications of Romanian nationalism, manifested as reluctance to obey German commands and discomfort with drastic change in general, are occasionally offered as further explanations of the phenomenon.''Final Report'', pp.69, 171-172, 383; Deletant, pp.121-122, 210; Oldson, pp.4, 8-11, 161-163. According to Penkower (p.153), Radu Lecca changed orders for the deportation into Occupation of Poland (1939-1945)|occupied Poland immediately after being "snubbed" by Joachim von Ribbentrop's employees. While reflecting upon the issue of emigration to Palestine, Antonescu also yielded to pleas of Jewish community leaders, and allowed safe passage through Romania for various Northern Transylvanian Jews fleeing the Holocaust in Hungary.Deletant, pp.216, 218, 225-229, 340-341; Penkower, pp.169-170; Weber, p.150 He was doing the same for certain Northern Transylvanian Romani communities who had escaped southwards.''Final Report'', p.237; Achim, pp.170, 185 In that context, Nazi German ideologues began objecting to Antonescu's supposed leniency.Achim, pp.183-184; Deletant, pp.228-229 Antonescu nevertheless alternated tolerance of illegal immigration with drastic measures. In early 1944, he issued an order to shoot illegal immigrants, which was probably never enforced by the Border Police''Final Report'', p.201; Deletant, pp.226-228, 253 (who occasionally turned in Jewish refugees to the German authorities).Deletant, p.228 The Antonescu regime allowed the extermination of the Romanian Jewish diaspora in other parts of Europe,''Final Report'', pp.173-175; Deletant, p.229; Ioanid, pp.244-245; Penkower, p.152 formally opposing their deportation in some cases where it appeared Germany was impinging upon Romania's sovereignty.''Final Report'', pp.173-175, 250-251; Deletant, pp.229, 340; Ioanid, pp.244-245
 and Dinu Bratianu and addressed to Antonescu
The circumstances of wartime accounted for cautious and ambivalent approaches to Antonescu's rule from among the Romanian political mainstream, which grouped advocates of liberal democracy and anti-fascism. According to Gledhill and King: "Romanian liberals had been critical of their government's warm relationship with Hitler, which had been developing throughout the 1930s, but the  Soviet attack on Romanian territory left them with little chance but to support Germany's invasion of the Soviet Union." Other authors also cite the Greater Romanian agenda of the Antonescu executive as a reason behind the widespread acquiescence.''Final Report'', pp.284-285, 320, 324; Deletant, p.319; Gella, p.171; King, pp.93-94; Tra?ca, pp.378-379; White, pp.157-158 The tendency was illustrated by Dinu Bratianu, who, in late January 1941, told his National Liberal Party (Romania, 1875)|National Liberal colleagues that the new "government of generals" was "the best solution possible to the current crisis", urging the group to provide Antonescu with "all the support we can give him." An early point of contention between Antonescu and the National Peasants' Party came in spring 1941, when Antonescu's support for the Balkans Campaign and Romania's claim to parts of Vojvodina were met with a letter of protest from Iuliu Maniu, which Antonescu dismissed.Haynes, pp.111-113 Maniu and Bratianu also issued several condemnations of Antonescu's decision to continue the war beyond the Dniester.Deletant, pp.51, 84-85, 93-94, 98, 266-267; Kenney, pp.93; King, p.94 One such letter, signed by both, claimed that, while earlier steps had been "legitimized by the entire soul of the nation, the Romanian people will never consent to the continuation of the struggle beyond our national borders."King, p.94 Maniu specifically mentioned the possibility of Allied victory, accused Antonescu of diverting attention from the goal of Greater Romania (Northern Transylvania included), and stressed that Romania's ongoing participation in the Axis was "troubling enough".
Antonescu is known to have publicly admonished opposition leaders for their disobedience, which he equated with obstruction,Deletant, pp.93-94, 117-118, 206, 234; Kenney, p.93 and to have monitored their activities through the Serviciul Special de Informa?ii|Special Intelligence Service.Deletant, p.75 However, some early communiqués he addressed to Bratianu also feature offers of resignation, which their recipient reluctantly rejected.Deletant, pp.74, 94, 307 The Germans objected to such ambiguities, and Hitler once advised Antonescu to have Maniu killed, an option which the ''Conducator'' rejected because of the PN? leader's popularity with the peasants. While tolerating contacts between Maniu and the Allies, Antonescu arrested the clandestine British envoys to Romania, thus putting a stop to the 1943 ''Operation Autonomous''.Deletant, p.343 In parallel, his relationship with Queen Mother Helen and Michael rapidly deteriorated after he began advising the royal family on how to conduct its affairs.Deletant, pp.53, 99-100 Dissent from Antonescu's policies sometimes came from inside his own camp. Both the officer corps and the General Staff were divided on the issue of war beyond the Dniester, although it is possible that the majority agreed it would bring Northern Transylvania back to Romania.Tra?ca, pp.378-380 A prominent case was that of Iosif Iacobici, the Chief of the Romanian General Staff, whose objection to the massive transfer of Romanian troops to the Eastern Front resulted in his demotion and replacement with Ilie ?teflea (January 1942). ?teflea issued similar calls, and Antonescu's eventually agreed to preserve a home army just before the Battle of Stalingrad.Deletant, pp.98, 264, 307 Various other military men extended their protection to persecuted Jews.''Final Report'', pp.292-296 Overall, Antonescu met significant challenges in exercising control over the politicized sectors in the armed forces.Deletant, p.52
Antonescu's racial discrimination laws and Romania's participation in the Holocaust earned significant objections from various individuals and groups in Romanian society. One noted opponent was Queen Mother Helen, who actively intervened to save Jews from being deported.''Final Report'', pp.286, 288, 290, 300; Deletant, pp.212, 337; Ioanid, pp.234; Weber, pp.158-159 The Mayor of Chernivtsi|Cernau?i, Traian Popovici, publicly objected to the deportation of Jews,''Final Report'', pp.177, 283, 289-290; Deletant, pp.161-165, 177 as did Gherman Pântea, his counterpart in Odessa.Deletant, p.177 The appeals of Queen Helen, King Michael, the Orthodox Metropolitan of Transylvania Nicolae Balan, Apostolic Nuncio Andrea Cassulo and Swiss Ambassador René de Weck are credited with having helped avert the full application of the Final Solution in Antonescu's Romania.Deletant, pp.211-212, 337; Ioanid, pp.234-235; ''Final Report'', pp.286, 301 Cassulo and Balan together pleaded for the fate of certain Jews, including all who had converted to Christianity, and the former publicly protested against deportations.''Final Report'', pp.252, 286, 301, 383; Deletant, pp.198-204, 333, 336 While Romania and the United States were still at peace, American Minister Plenipotentiary Franklin Mott Gunther repeatedly attempted to make his superiors aware of Romanian actions against the Jews,Deletant, pp.159-160; Penkower, p.149 and Turkish diplomats unsuccessfully sought American approval for transferring Romanian Jews to safe passage through Anatolia and into Palestine.Penkower, p.149. According to Penkower, the plans were rejected by Department of State official Cavendish W. Cannon, who called attention to Arab Anti-Zionism. Dinu Bratianu also condemned antisemitic measures, prompting Antonescu to accuse him of being an ally of "the Yid in London".Deletant, p.117 Together with Maniu and Ion Mihalache, Bratianu signed statements condemning the isolation, persecution and expulsion of Jews, which prompted Antonescu to threaten to clamp down on them.''Final Report'', pp.169-170, 190, 286, 290, 298-300; Deletant, pp.206, 208; Weber, p.154 However, both parties were occasionally ambiguous on racial issues, and themselves produced antisemitic messages.''Final Report'', p.322; Weber, pp.153-156, 164; Ancel (2005 a), pp.409-411 Bratianu is also known for publicly defending the cause of Romani people, opposing their deportation on grounds that it would "turn back the clock on several centuries of history",Achim, p.174; ''Final Report'', p.238 a stance which drew support from his civilian peers.''Final Report'', pp.238-239 In parallel, some regular Romanians such as nurse Viorica Agarici intervened to save Jewish lives,''Final Report'', pp.287-312; Ancel (2005 a), pp.288-299; Deletant, pp.135-136. A list of Romanian and Moldovan ''Righteous among the Nations'' is found in ''Final Report'', pp.303-312. while, from inside the Jewish community, Chief Rabbi Alexandru ?afran and activist Mi?u Benvenisti rallied with Wilhelm Filderman in public protests against Antonescu's decisions, being occasionally joined by A. L. Zissu.Penkower, pp.153, 157, 169-170 In 1943, Filderman himself was deported to Mohyliv-Podilskyi, but eventually allowed to return.''Final Report'', p.298; Deletant, pp.124, 313; Penkower, p.161
s of the Antonescu regime, photographed in Târgu Jiu camp, 1943. Nicolae Ceau?escu, future leader of Communist Romania, is second from left
Organized resistance movements in Antonescu's Romania were comparatively small-scale and marginal. In addition to a Zionist underground which aided Jews to pass through or flee the country,Deletant, pp.216-219, 225-229, 337-339; Oldson, pp.7-8; Penkower, p.148sqq the regime was confronted with local political movements of contrasting shades. One of them comprised far left and left-wing elements, which Antonescu's rise to power had caught in an unusual position. The minor Romanian Communist Party, outlawed since the rule of Ferdinand I for its Cominternist national policies, had been rendered virtually inactive by the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact|German-Soviet non-aggression pact. Once reanimated by Operation Barbarossa, the PCR was unable to create an actual armed resistance movement, although it was able to coordinate the policies of several other small leftist groups.''Final Report'', p.324; Cioroianu, pp.44-45, 55, 126-132, 151-154; Deletant, pp.238-239, 344; Gella, p.172. In addition to the PCR, these included the Ploughmen's Front and the Socialist Peasants' Party (Cioroianu, pp.55, 126-127, 132, 151-154). Speaking shortly before the invasion of the Soviet Union, and adopting the "Jewish Bolshevism" position, Antonescu ordered authorities to compile lists comprising "the names of all Jewish and communist agents", who were to be kept under close surveillance.Browning, p.276; ''Final Report'', pp.65, 243 Among people arrested on suspicion of communism, Jews were sent to Transnistrian sites such as Vapniarka and Rîbni?a, while others were interned in regular facilities such as those in Caransebe? and Târgu Jiu.''Final Report'', pp.104-105, 143; Cioroianu, pp.42-52, 132-134; Deletant, pp.116, 123, 196-198, 219, 225, 238-239, 254, 303, 311, 332-333, 335-336, 340, 343-344 In all, some 2,000 Jewish Romanian deportees to the region had been accused of political crimes (the category also included those who had tried to escape forced labor).''Final Report'', p.143; Ioanid, p.233 According to one estimate, people held on charges of being communists accounted for just under 2,000 people, of whom some 1,200 were jailed in Romania proper.Deletant, pp.72, 303, 332 Capital punishment was used against various partisan-like activists,Frankowski, p.217. According to Deletant (p.72), 72 communists believed to be Soviet agents or partisans were executed in 1940-1944, from a total of 313 PCR members sentenced to death. The rest had their sentences commuted. while the vast majority of communist prisoners in Rîbni?a were massacred in March 1944.''Final Report'', p.105; Deletant, p.225 At the other end of the political spectrum, after the Legionnaires' rebellion and Bucharest pogrom|Legionary Rebellion and the Iron Guard's decapitation, many Legionaries who opposed the regime, and whom Antonescu himself believed were "communists in [Legionary] green shirts", were killed or imprisoned.''Final Report'', pp.62-63; Deletant, pp.71-72, 302-303, 311; Griffin (1993), p.127; Laqueur, p.205; Ornea, pp.219, 346; Veiga, pp.299, 313; Achim, p.169. Antonescu notably ordered the execution of 7 out of 20 Guardists sentenced to death for their roles in the Jilava Massacre (Deletant, p.302). An Iron Guardist underground was nevertheless formed locally, and probably numbered in thousands. Some of Antonescu's political prisoners from both camps were given a chance to redeem themselves by joining units on the Eastern Front.They included the Iron Guardist Haig Acterian (Ornea, p.219) and, possibly, the communist Ion Gheorghe Maurer (Cioroianu, p.134).
Although repressed, divided and weak, the PCR capitalized on the Soviet victories, being integrated into the mainstream opposition. At the same time, a "prison faction" emerged around Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, opposing both the formal leadership and the so-called "Muscovite" communists who had taken refuge in the Soviet Union before the war.Cioroianu, pp.43-46, 48-52; Deletant, pp.332, 344; Roper, pp.14-16 While maneuvering for control within the PCR during and after 1944, "prison" communists destroyed a third group, formed around the PCR's nominal leader ?tefan Fori? (whom they kidnapped and eventually killed).Cioroianu, pp.46, 48-49, 62, 134 The PCR leadership was still suffering from a crisis of legitimacy after beginning talks with the larger parties.Deletant, pp.343-344; Gella, p.172; Roper, pp.13-16 The Soviets and "Muscovite" communists campaigned among Romanian prisoners of war in order to have them switch sides in the war, and eventually managed to set up the Tudor Vladimirescu Division.Cioroianu, pp.128, 134-135, 140, 171, 265; Roper, pp.14-15; Gella, p.172
Measures enforced by the Ion Antonescu regime had contradictory effects on the Romanian cultural scene. According to Romanian literary historians Leti?ia Guran and Alexandru ?tefan, "the Antonescu regime [...] did not affect negatively cultural modernity. The Romanian cultural elite regarded Antonescu's policies for the most part with sympathy."Guran & ?tefan, p.113 Nevertheless, other researchers record the dissent of several cultural environments: the classic liberalism and cosmopolitanism of aging literary theorist Eugen Lovinescu, the "Lovinescian" Sibiu Literary Circle, and the rebellious counterculture of young avant-garde writers (Ion Caraion, Geo Dumitrescu, Dimitrie Stelaru, Constant Tonegaru).Neubauer ''et al.'', pp.148, 150 Prominent left-wing writers Tudor Arghezi, Victor Eftimiu and Zaharia Stancu were political prisoners during the Antonescu years.Neubauer ''et al.'', p.148 Author George Calinescu also stood out against the official guidelines, and, in 1941, took a risk by publishing a synthesis of Romanian literature which emphasized Jewish contributions,Boia, p.259 while composer George Enescu pleaded with Antonescu personally for the fate of Romani musicians. Similar acts of solidarity were performed by various prominent intellectuals and artists.''Final Report'', pp.290-292, 295 In August 1942, King Michael received a manifesto endorsed by intellectuals from various fields, deploring the murders in Transnistria, and calling for a realignment of policies.''Final Report'', pp.300-301; Deletant, pp.206-207 Another such document of April 1944 called for an immediate peace with the Soviet Union.Deletant, p.237 On a more intimate level, a diary kept by philosopher and art critic Alice Voinescu expresses her indignation over the antisemitic measures and massacres.Bucur (2006), pp.184-186
A special aspect of political repression and cultural hegemony was Antonescu's persecution of Evangelical or Restorationist Christian denominations, first outlawed under the National Legionary regime.Deletant, pp.58, 297, 302 Several thousand adherents of the Pentecostal Union and the Baptist Union were reportedly jailed in compliance with his orders.Earl A. Pope, "Protestantism in Romania", in Pedro Ramet, Sabrina P. Ramet (eds.), ''Christianity under Stress. Vol. III: Protestantism and Politics in Eastern Europe and Russia: The Communist and Postcommunist Eras'', Duke University Press, 1992, pp.174-175, 184. ISBN 0-8223-1241-7 Persecution targeted groups of religiously motivated conscientious objectors. In addition to the Inochentist movement, these groups included the Pentecostal Union, the Romanian Union Conference of Seventh-day Adventists|Seventh-day Adventist Conference and the Jehovah's Witnesses Association of Romania|Jehovah's Witnesses Association., in LIT Verlag's , 1/2007 Antonescu himself recounted having contemplated using the death penalty against "sects" who would not allow military service, and ultimately deciding in favor of deporting "recalcitrant" ones.Deletant, pp.73, 254
The period following Antonescu's fall returned Romania to a democratic regime and the 1923 Constitution, as well as its participation in the war alongside the Allies. However, it also saw the early stages of a communist takeover-which culminated with King Michael's forced abdication on December 30, 1947 and the subsequent establishment of Communist Romania. The Antonescu trial thus fit into a long series of similar procedures and political purges on charges of collaborationism, instrumented by the Romanian People's Tribunals and various other institutions.''Final Report'', pp.313-331; Cioroianu, pp.130-131, 265-268, 295-297; Gella, p.173; Ioanid, pp.235-237; Deletant, pp.264, 347, 349; Weber, pp.158-159 During the rigged Romanian general election, 1946|general election of 1946 and for years after Ion Antonescu's execution, the Romanian Communist Party and its allies began using the implications of his trial as an abusive means of compromising some of their political opponents.''Final Report'', pp.315-316, 324; Deletant, pp.249-250, 349; Ioanid, p.235 One such early example was Iuliu Maniu, by then one of the country's prominent Anti-communism|anti-communists, who was accused of being a fascist and an Antonescu sympathizer, mainly for having shaken his hand during the trial. The enlistment of ethnic Germans into Nazi German units, as approved by Antonescu, was used as a pretext for a Soviet-led expulsion of Germans from Romania.Cioroianu, pp.266-267 On similar grounds, the Soviet occupation forces organized the capture of certain Romanian citizens, as well as the return of war refugees from Romania proper into Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina. Both the arrestees and the returnees were often deported deeper into the Soviet Union.Ancel (2005 b), pp.235-236, 241; Gella, p.173 As part of its deteriorating relationship with Romanian Roman Catholics, and urged on by the Soviets, the communist cabinet of Petru Groza also deemed Apostolic Nuncio Andrea Cassulo a collaborator of Antonescu and a ''persona non grata'', based on transcripts of the Cassulo-Antonescu conversations.Kent, pp.109-110 It also used such allegations to pressure several Romanian Church United with Rome, Greek-Catholic|Greek-Catholic clergymen into accepting union with the Romanian Orthodox Church.
Nevertheless, Romanian-born Holocaust historian Radu Ioanid notes, few Romanians involved in organizing the Holocaust were prosecuted, and, of those, none were executed after the Antonescu trial. He attributes this to nationalist resistance within the administrative and judicial apparatus, to communist fears of alienating a too large number of people, to the emigration of Zionist survivors, and to the open hostility of some communists toward liberal Jewish community leaders.Ioanid, pp.235-236 Jews also faced conflict with the new authorities and with the majority population, as described by other researchers.''Final Report'', pp.316, 339; Ancel (2005 b), pp.235-256; Weber, pp.152-159, 164-167. Ancel discusses in particular the influx of Zionists fleeing Soviet rule in the late 1940s, the renewed antisemitic violence of the period, as well as the various clashes between Romanian officials and Jewish community leaders both before and after the communist takeover. There were, nonetheless, sporadic trials for Holocaust-related crimes, including one of Maria Antonescu. Arrested in September 1944 and held 1945-1946 in Soviet custody, she was re-arrested at home in 1950, tried and ultimately found guilty of economic crimes for her collaboration with the Central Jewish Office.Deletant, pp.313, 350 Five years later, she was sent into internal exile, and died of heart problems in 1964.Deletant, p.350 After 1950, a large number of convicted war criminals, even some sentenced to life imprisonment, were deemed fit for "social cohabitation" (that is, fit to live amongst the general population) and released, while some suspects were never prosecuted.''Final Report'', pp.281, 315, 317-318
Although the Marxist analytical works of the increasingly marginalized communist figure Lucre?iu Patra?canu make isolated mentions of the Holocaust,''Final Report'', pp.337-338; Ioanid, pp.233, 244; Weber, p.161 the heavily politicized official discourse inspired by Soviet historiography interpreted Romania's wartime evolution exclusively based on the Marxism-Leninism|Marxist-Leninist idea of class conflict.''Final Report'', pp.321-331, 335-339, 347, 385; Deletant, pp.3-4, 262-263; Weber, pp.157, 159, 166-167 In this context, the main effort to document and expose the Antonescu-era massacres came from Jewish Romanians. This began in 1945, when Jewish journalists Marius Mircu and Maier Rudrich contributed first-hand testimonies.Ioanid, p.236; Weber, pp.161-163 In 1946-1948, the Jewish community leader Matatias Carp published ''Cartea neagra'' ("The Black Book"), a voluminous and detailed account of all stages of the Holocaust.Ancel (2005 a), pp.17-18, 427-428; Deletant, p.273; Ioanid, p.236; Weber, pp.160-161 After forming a secondary element in Antonescu's indictment, the deportation of Romani people was largely ignored in official discourse.''Final Report'', pp.240-241; Achim, pp.170-171, 189
The communist regime overemphasized the part played by the PCR in King Michael's Coup, while commemorating its August 23 date as a national holiday.Boia, p.119; Bucur (2004), pp.173-176; Roper, pp.13-14, 41-42; Deletant, pp.243, 265-266, 269, 344 The Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej faction emerged as the winner of the interior PCR struggles and incorporated nationalist discourse. That faction claimed a decisive role in toppling Antonescu, even though a majority of its members had been jailed for most of the period.Deletant, pp.243, 265-266, 343-344; Roper, pp.13-15, 41-42 In accordance with Stalinist principles, censorship produced historical revisionism that excluded focus on such negative aspects of Romanian behavior during the war as antisemitism and the Holocaust,''Final Report'', pp.280-281, 283-284, 335-339, 347, 385; Deletant, pp.264-265; Ioanid, pp.236-237; Weber, pp.158-159, 166-167 and obscured Romania's participation on the Eastern Front.Deletant, pp.4, 264-265 Beginning in the mid-1960s, when Nicolae Ceau?escu took power and embarked on a national communist course, the celebration of August 23 as the inception of the communist regime was accompanied by a contradictory tendency, which implied a gradual rehabilitation of Antonescu and his regime.''Final Report'', pp.283-284, 340-348; Ancel (2005 a), p.423; Boia, pp.118-119, 336, 340; Deletant, pp.4-5, 265-269; Ioanid, pp.236-245; Oldson, pp.3-4; Geran Pilon, pp.59-66 Historians who focused on this period believe that the revival of nationalist tenets and the relative distance taken from Soviet policies contributed to the rehabilitation process.''Final Report'', pp.339-340; Boia, pp.119, 340; Deletant, pp.4-5, 266-269; Ioanid, pp.239-240 After a period of liberalization, the increasingly authoritarian Ceau?escu regime revived the established patterns of personalized rule, and even made informal use of the title ''Conducator''.Boia, p.336; Cioroianu, pp.416-420, 490-492 Beginning in the early 1970s, when the new policies were consecrated by the ''July Theses'', Ceau?escu tolerated a nationalist, antisemitic and Holocaust denialist intellectual faction, illustrated foremost by ''Saptamîna'' and ''Luceafarul (magazine)|Luceafarul'' magazines of Eugen Barbu and Corneliu Vadim Tudor, by poet Adrian Paunescu and his ''Flacara'' journal, and by novelist Ion Lancranjan.Ioanid, pp.239-240, 245 The regime also came to cultivate a relationship with exiled tycoon Iosif Constantin Dragan, a former Iron Guard member who had come to endorse both Antonescu's rehabilitation and the national communist version of Protochronism.''Final Report'', pp.348; Boia, pp.160-161, 259, 340; Shafir, p.215; Deletant, pp.269; Geran Pilon, pp.67, 116; Ioanid, pp.246, 251; Laqueur, p.205 In contrast, much of dissident culture and the Romanian diaspora embraced the image of Michael I as its counterpart to the increasingly official Antonescu myth.Boia, pp.339-341 Lucian Boia described this as "the spectacular confrontation between the two contradictory myths [transposing] into historical and mythological terms a fundamental fissure which divides the Romanian society of today."Boia, p.339
Topics relating to the Holocaust in Romania were distorted during the national communist stage. Ceau?escu himself mentioned the number of survivors of the deportations (some 50,000 people) as a total number of victims, failed to mention the victims' ethnic background, and presented most of them as "communists and antifascists."Ioanid, p.240 The regime also placed emphasis on the Holocaust in Northern Transylvania (where the Final Solution had been applied by the Germans and the local Arrow Cross Party).''Final Report'', pp.283-284, 302, 345-346; Ancel (2005 a), p.424; Bucur (2004), pp.174-175; Ioanid, p.240 Earlier accounts of the massacres, which had already been placed under restricted use, were completely removed from public libraries.Ancel (2005 a), pp.12-13, 17, 414; Ioanid, p.236 While a special politicized literature dealt with the Holocaust in Hungary, the entire Ceau?escu period produced only one work entirely dedicated to Romania's participation.Ioanid, pp.240-241 Centered on the Ia?i pogrom, it shifted the blame from Romanian authorities and advanced a drastically reduced death toll.Ancel (2005 a), pp.428-425; Ioanid, pp.240-241 In its preface, official historian Nicolae Minei claimed that Romania was not responsible for any deaths among Jews.''Final Report'', p.345; Ioanid, p.241 Other official texts made more radical claims, openly denying that Antonescu's regime was antisemitic, and that all those killed were victims of Germany or of circumstance.''Final Report'', pp.284, 302, 340-348; Ancel (2005 a), pp.414, 418; Ioanid, pp.241-245; Oldson, p.3; Deletant, pp.264, 269; Weber, pp.164-165
Romanians' image of Antonescu shifted several times after the 1989 Revolution toppled communism. Polls carried out in the 1990s show the ''Conducator'' was well liked by portions of the general public.Boia, pp.28-29, 340, 344; Shafir, p.230 This tendency, Lucian Boia argues, was similar to a parallel trend favoring Wallachia's 15th century Prince Vlad III the Impaler, indicating a preference for "authoritarian solutions" and reflecting "a pantheon that was largely set in place in the 'Ceau?escu era' ".Boia, pp.28-29 It was also popular at the time to see the 1944 Coup exclusively as the onset of communization in Romania,''Final Report'', pp.319, 322, 330-331; Boia, pp.340-341; Bucur (2004), p.178; Deletant, pp.270-271 while certain sections of the public opinion revived the notion of "Jewish Bolshevism", accusing Jews of having brought communism to Romania.Boia, p.259; Deletant, pp.270-271 British historian Tony Judt connected such reflexes to growing anti-Russian sentiment and Holocaust denial in various countries of the former Eastern Bloc, and termed them collectively "mis-memory of anti-communism".Tony Judt, "The Past is Another Country: Myth and Memory in Post-war Europe", in Jan-Werner Müller (ed.), ''Memory and Power in Post-war Europe'', Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2002, p.175. ISBN 0-521-00070-X Vladimir Tismaneanu, a prominent Romanian-born political scientist, referred to Antonescu's "pseudo-sacred" image with the post-1989 public, and to the phenomenon as "fantasies of persecution."Deletant, p.4 The wartime dictator's image appealed to many politicians of the History of Romania since 1989|post-1989 period, and sporadic calls for his rehabilitation were issued at the highest levels of authority.''Final Report'', pp.349, 352-353, 360-361; Boia, pp.340-341; Bucur (2004), p.178sqq; Deletant, pp.269-271, 312; Ioanid, p.246sqq; Kenney, p.93; Laqueur, pp.205-206 Far right groups issued calls for his canonization by the Romanian Orthodox Church (together with a similar request to canonize Corneliu Zelea Codreanu).Ramet, pp.172-173 Certain neofascist groups claim to represent a legacy of ''Codrenism'' from which Sima was a deviationist, and these have also become Antonescu apologists.Laqueur, p.205. Both factions have also been known to endorse integral denial (''Final Report'', pp.365-367).
A particular case in this process was that of forces gathered around the Greater Romania Party, a group often characterized as merging xenophobic or neofascist messages and the legacy of Ceau?escu's national communism.''Final Report'', pp.349, 350, 351, 353-354, 359, 373-374; Boia, pp.340-341; Geran Pilon, pp.67-71; Ioanid, pp.246, 250-252; Laqueur, pp.203-205; Shafir, pp.214-215; Bucur (2004), p.178; Deletant, pp.6, 269-271 Founded by party leader and former ''Saptamîna'' contributor Corneliu Vadim Tudor, ''România Mare (magazine)|România Mare'' magazine is known to have equated Antonescu and Ceau?escu, presenting them both as "apostles of the Romanian people".Boia, p.340; ''Final Report'', pp.349, 350, 373; Bucur (2004), p.178; Deletant, pp.6, 269, 281-282 In his bid for the office of President during the Romanian presidential election, 1996|1996 election, Vadim Tudor vowed to be a new Antonescu.Deletant, pp.281-282; Shafir, p.231 Boia remarks that this meeting of extremes offers an "extraordinary paradox".Boia, p.340 Dragan also openly resumed his activities in Romania, often in collaboration with Vadim Tudor's group,''Final Report'', pp.350, 353; Ioanid, pp.246, 251; Laqueur, pp.205-206 founding three organizations tasked with campaigning for Antonescu's rehabilitation: the media outlet Europa Nova,''Final Report'', pp.350-352, 362-363; Ioanid, p.246 the Ion Antonescu Foundation and the Ion Antonescu League.''Final Report'', p.350; Shafir, p.215 His colleague Radu Theodoru endorsed such projects while accusing Jews of being "a long-term noxious factor" and claiming that it was actually ethnic Romanians who were victims of a communist Holocaust.Deletant, pp.271, 352. Theodoru stands out for his complete form of Holocaust denial (''Final Report'', pp.350-352, 354, 362, 373). Ion Coja and Paul Goma notably produced radical claims relying on fabricated evidence and deflecting blame for the crimes onto the Jews themselves.''Final Report'', pp.356, 357-358, 372, 375-376, 378 Several journals edited by Ion Cristoiu repeatedly argued in favor of Antonescu's rehabilitation, also making xenophobic claims;Among those cited are ''Expres Magazin'' (Ioanid, pp.129, 250) and ''Dosarele Historia'' (Deletant, p.350) ''Evenimentul Zilei'' did the same in the early 1990s. (Weber, p.150). similar views were sporadically present in national dailies of various hues, such as ''Ziua'', ''România Libera''''Final Report'', pp.349, 354, 356, 375 and ''Adevarul''.Ioanid, pp.247, 248
Various researchers argue that the overall tendency to exculpate Antonescu was endorsed by the ruling National Salvation Front and its successor group, later known as Social Democratic Party,Boia, pp.340-341; Deletant, pp.269-270; Ioanid, pp.247-250, 251-252; Kenney, p.93; Laqueur, p.205 who complemented an emerging pro-authoritarian lobby while depicting their common opponent King Michael and his supporters as traitors.Boia, pp.340-341; Deletant, pp.269, 270; Kenney, p.93 Sections of both governing and opposition groups contemplated the idea of rehabilitating the wartime leader, and, in May 1991, Parliament observed a moment of silence in his memory.Deletant, p.270; Ioanid, p.247 The perceived governmental tolerance of Antonescu's rehabilitation raised international concern and protests.''Final Report'', pp.360-362; Boia, p.29; Ioanid, pp.249-250, 252; Kenney, p.93 In 1997, Romanian President Emil Constantinescu, a representative of the Democratic Convention, became the first Romanian officeholder to recognize Antonescu's complicity.''Final Report'', pp.374-375; Deletant, pp.271-272 Nevertheless, during the same period, Attorney General Sorin Moisescu followed a since-deprecated special appeal procedure to overturn sentences passed against Antonescu and other 1946 defendants, which he eventually withdrew.''Final Report'', p.349
To a certain degree, such pro-Antonescu sentiments were also present in post-1989 historiography. Reflecting back on this phenomenon in 2004, Maria Bucur wrote: "the perverse image of Antonescu is not the product of a propaganda campaign led by right-wing extremists, but a pervasive myth fed by historical debates and political contests, and which the public seems indifferent to or accepts unproblematically."Bucur (2004), p.158 After the Revolution, archival sources concerning Antonescu, including those in the National Archives of Romania, were made more available to researchers, but documents confiscated or compiled by Soviet officials, kept in Russia, remained largely inaccessible.Deletant, pp.2, 3, 5 Although confronted with more evidence from the newly opened archives, several historians, including some employed by official institutions, continued to deny the Holocaust in Romania, and attributed the death toll exclusively to German units.Régine Robin, "Une juste mémoire, est-ce possible?", in Thomas Ferenczi (ed.), ''Devoir de mémoire, droit à l'oubli?'', Éditions Complexe, Paris, 2002, p.109. ISBN 2-87027-941-8; Bucur (2004), pp.158, 178-179; Deletant, pp.4-7, 262, 270-273 In parallel, some continued an exclusive focus on Northern Transylvanian massacres.Bucur (2004), p.178; Ioanid, p.245. According to Ioanid, these Romanian-sourced interpretations affected historiographic accounts at an international level, when they were republished by the Yad Vashem. Local authors who have actively promoted Antonescu's image as a hero and wrote apologetic accounts of his politics include historians Gheorghe Buzatu''Final Report'', pp.348, 350, 355-356, 357-359, 361, 367; Bucur (2004), p.178; Deletant, pp.7, 270-271, 352-353 and Mihai Pelin,''Final Report'', p.348 and researcher Alex Mihai Stoenescu.''Final Report'', p.353; Deletant, p.273 Larry L. Watts published a similarly controversial monograph in the United States.''Final Report'', pp.348, 362; Deletant, pp.273-274 Although criticized for denying the uniqueness of the Holocaust and downplaying Antonescu's complicity, Dinu C. Giurescu was recognized as the first Post-Communism|post-communist Romanian historian to openly acknowledge his country's participation,''Final Report'', pp.179, 341, 379; Deletant, p.272; Ioanid, p.249 while his colleagues ?erban Papacostea and Andrei Pippidi were noted as early critics of attempts to exculpate Antonescu.''Final Report'', p.379; Deletant, pp.281, 253, 352 The matter of crimes in Transnistria and elsewhere was first included within the Romanian curriculum with a 1999 state-approved alternative textbook edited by Sorin Mitu.Deletant, p.272
In 2003, after a period in which his own equivocal stance on the matter had drawn controversy,''Final Report'', pp.361, 374; Deletant, pp.270-273 Constantinescu's successor Ion Iliescu established the Wiesel Commission, an international group of expert historians whose mission was the study of the Holocaust in Romania, later succeeded by the Elie Wiesel National Institute. The ''Final Report'' compiled by the Commission brought the official recognition of Ion Antonescu's participation in the Holocaust.''Final Report'', pp.9-13, 17-18, 361-362, 386-393; Deletant, pp.6-7 After that moment, public displays of support for Antonescu became illegal. Vasile Gârne?, , in ''Contrafort'', October 2006 The vote's knockout phase included televised profiles of the ten most popular figures, and saw historian Adrian Cioroianu using the portion dedicated to Antonescu to expose and condemn him, giving voters reasons not to see the dictator as a great Romanian. The approach resulted in notable controversy after ''Ziua'' newspaper criticized Cioroianu, who defended himself by stating he had an obligation to tell the truth.
The same year, on December 5, the Bucharest Court of Appeals overturned Antonescu's conviction for certain crimes against peace, on the grounds that the objective conditions of 1940 justified a preventive war against the Soviet Union, which would make Article 3 of the 1933 Convention for the Definition of Aggression inapplicable in his case Ionel Stoica, Dan Sebastian, , in ''Adevarul'', September 26, 2008
Beyond their propaganda and censorship efforts, Antonescu and his regime had a sizable impact on Romanian culture, art and literature. Owing to austere guidelines on culture and to the circumstances of wartime, this period's direct imprint is less than that of other periods in the country's history. Few large heroes' memorials were built during the war years. Memorials produced at the time were mainly roadside triptychs (''troi?e'').Bucur (2004), p.172 The Heroes' Cult organization received expropriation rights to Bucharest's Jewish cemetery in 1942, and proposed to replace it with a major monument of this category, but that plan was eventually abandoned.Bucur (2004), pp.172-173 Antonescu and his wife preferred donating to Orthodox churches, and were ''ktitors'' of churches in three separate Bucharest areas: Margeanului Church in Rahova, one in Damaroaia, and the Saints Constantine and Helena Church in Muncii, where both the Marshal and his wife are depicted in a mural. After floods took a toll on his native Arge? County, the Marshal himself established ''Antone?ti'', a model village in Corbeni (partly built by Ukrainian prisoners of war, and later passed into state property), while ordering hydroelectric exploitation of the Arge? River. Ion Longin Popescu, , in ''Formula As'', Nr. 823, June 2008 He also had sporadic contacts with the artistic and literary environment, including an interview he awarded to his supporter, writer Ioan Alexandru Bratescu-Voine?ti.Deletant, pp.98, 118, 231 His 1946 trial was notably attended and documented by George Calinescu in a series of articles for ''Na?iunea'' journal. Political humor of the 1940s preserved distinct images of the Romanian leader. Romanian jokes circulated under Antonescu's rule ridiculed his adoption of the title ''Marshal of Romania'', viewing it as a self-promotion and dubbing him the "Auto-Marshal".Deletant, p.305 During the war, Soviet agitprop portrayed Antonescu and the other secondary Axis leaders as villains and servile dog-like creatures, representations notably present in musical theater and puppetry shows,Richard Stites, "Frontline Entertainment", in Richard Stites (ed.), ''Culture and Entertainment in Wartime Russia'', Indiana University Press, Bloomington & Indianapolis, pp.135-136. ISBN 0-253-20949-8 as well as in press cartoons.Roy Douglas, ''The World War, 1939-1945. The Cartoonists' Vision'', Routledge, London, pp.94, 96. ISBN 0-415-03049-8
Marin Preda's 1975 novel ''Delirul'' displays the Ceau?escu regime's ambiguous relationship with Antonescu. Critics John Neubauer and Marcel Cornis-Pope remark that the novel is "admittedly not [Preda's] best work", and discuss his "complex representation" of Antonescu as "an essentially flawed but active leader who tried to negotiate some maneuvering room between the demands of Germany and the threats of the Soviet Union [and whose failure] led to the dismantling of Romania's fragile democratic system."Neubauer ''et al.'', p.174 The book sought Antonescu's rehabilitation for his attitudes on the Bessarabia-Northern Bukovina issue, but did not include any mention of his antisemitic policies, of which Preda himself may have been ignorant.Deletant, pp.267-268; Ioanid, p.239 An international scandal followed, once negative comments on the book were published by the Soviet magazine ''Literaturnaya Gazeta''.Deletant, p.268; Ioanid, p.239 Although an outspoken nationalist, Eugen Barbu produced a satirical image of Antonescu in his own 1975 novel, ''Incognito'', which was described by Deletant as "character assassination".Deletant, p.267
During the 1990s, monuments to Antonescu were raised and streets were named after him in Bucharest and several other cities.''Final Report'', pp.359-361; Bucur (2004), pp.158, 178; Ioanid, pp.251-252; Kenney, p.93; Ramet, p.173 Among those directly involved in this process were Iosif Constantin Dragan,''Final Report'', p.360; Ioanid, p.251; Shafir, p.215 the nationalist List of mayors of Cluj-Napoca|Mayor of Cluj-Napoca, Gheorghe Funar,''Final Report'', p.360; Shafir, p.215 and General Mircea Chelaru, whose resignation from the Army was subsequently requested and obtained. Also during that interval, in 1993, filmmaker and Social Democratic politician Sergiu Nicolaescu produced ''Oglinda'', which depicts Antonescu (played by Ion Siminie) apologetically.Ioanid, p.251 The rehabilitation trend was also represented at an October 1994 commemorative exhibit at the National Military Museum.Bucur (2004), p.178 The same year, a denialist documentary film, ''Destinul mare?alului'' ("The Marshal's Destiny"), was distributed by state-owned companies, a matter which raised concern.Ioanid, p.252 After the Wiesel Commission presented its findings and such public endorsement was outlawed, statues in Antonescu's likeness were torn down or otherwise made unavailable for public viewing.''Final Report'', pp.359-361 An unusual case is that of his Saints Constantine and Helena Church, where, after lengthy debates, his bust was sealed inside a metal box. Outside of this context, the publicized display of Antonescu's portraits and racist slogans by football hooligans during Liga I's Divizia A 2005-06|2005-2006 season prompted UEFA intervention (''see Racism Breaks the Game'').Mihir Bose, , in ''The Daily Telegraph'', September 7, 2005
Antonescu received a number of awards and decorations throughout his military career, most notable being the Order of Michael the Brave, which was personally awarded to him by King Ferdinand I during the Hungarian-Romanian War of 1919. He also received several decorations from foreign countries. He was the first Romanian to receive the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross, being awarded it by Hitler himself.
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|-
! colspan=2 | Award or decoration 
! Country
! Date
! Place
! Note
! Ref
|-
| 
| Medal of Military Virtue (1st Class in Gold)
| 
| 1913
| Southern Dobruja
| align="left"| Romania's highest military decoration at the time. Only received by one other officer in the army during the Second Balkan War.
|
|-
| 
| Order of Michael the Brave (3rd, 2nd, and 1st Class received)
| 
| 1919
| Tisza River, Hungary
| align="left"|Romania's highest military decoration. Upon crossing the River Tisza, King Ferdinand took the Order of Michael the Brave from his own uniform and presented it to Antonescu, saying "Antonescu, no one in this country knows better than the King how much they owe you."
| 
|-
| 
| Pilot/Observer Badge in Gold with Diamonds
| 
| June 1941
| 
| align="left"|Bestowed to honor exceptional success, presented to Antonescu by ''Reichsmarschall'' Hermann Göring.
| 
|-
| 
| Iron Cross (2nd, and 1st Class received)
| 
| August 6, 1941
| Berdychiv
| align="left"|Awarded for bravery in battle as well as other military contributions in a battlefield environment.
| 
|-
| 
| Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross
| 
| August 6, 1941
| Berdychiv
| align="left"|Nazi Germany's highest decoration for its military and paramilitary forces during World War II. First Romanian to receive the award.
| 
|-
| 
| Grand Cross of the White Rose of Finland with Swords
| 
| January 1942
| Bucharest
| align="left"|One of three highest state orders of Finland, established in 1919 by Carl Gustaf Emil Mannerheim.
|
|}
* of the International Commission on the Holocaust in Romania, Polirom, Ia?i, 2004. ISBN 973-681-989-2
*Viorel Achim, ''The Roma in Romanian History'', Central European University Press, Budapest, 2004. ISBN 963-9241-84-9
*Jean Ancel,
**''Preludiu la asasinat. Pogromul de la Ia?i, 29 iunie 1941'', Polirom, Ia?i, 2005. ISBN 973-681-799-7
**" 'The New Jewish Invasion' - The Return of the Survivors in Transnistria", in David Bankier (ed.), ''The Jews are Coming Back: The Return of the Jews to Their Countries of Origin after WWII'', Berghahn Books, Providence, 2005, pp. 231-256. ISBN 1-57181-527-9
*Lucian Boia, ''Istorie ?i mit în con?tiin?a româneasca'', Humanitas, Bucharest, 1997. ISBN 973-50-0055-5
*Christopher R. Browning, ''The Origins of the Final Solution: The Evolution of Nazi Jewish Policy, September 1939 - March 1942'', University of Nebraska Press, Lincoln, 2004. ISBN 978-0-8032-5979-9
*Maria Bucur,
**"Edifices of the Past: War Memorials and Heroes in Twentieth-century Romania", in Maria Todorova (ed.), ''Balkan Identities: Nation and Memory'', C. Hurst & Co. Publishers, London, 2004, pp. 158-179. ISBN 1-85065-715-7
**"Women's Stories as Sites of Memory: Gender and Remembering Romania's World Wars", in Nancy M. Wingfield, Maria Bucur (eds.), ''Gender & War in Twentieth-century Eastern Europe'', Indiana University Press, Bloomington, 2006, pp. 171-192
*Christopher Chant, ''The Encyclopedia of Codenames of World War II'', Routledge & Kegan Paul Books Ltd., London, 1987. ISBN 0-7102-0718-2
*Adrian Cioroianu, '''', Editura Curtea Veche, Bucharest, 2005. ISBN 973-669-175-6
*Marcel Cornis-Pope, John Neubauer (eds.), ''History of the Literary Cultures of East-Central Europe'', John Benjamins, Amsterdam & Philadelphia, 2004. ISBN 90-272-3452-3; see:
**Leti?ia Guran, Alexandru ?tefan, "Romanian Literature under Stalinism", pp. 112-124
**John Neubauer ''et al.'', "1945", pp. 143-177
*Dennis Deletant, ''Hitler's Forgotten Ally: Ion Antonescu and His Regime, Romania, 1940-1944'', Palgrave Macmillan, London, 2006. ISBN 1-4039-9341-6
*Stanislaw Frankowski, "Post-Communist Europe", in Peter Hodgkinson, Andrew Rutherford (eds.), ''Capital Punishment: Global Issues and Prospects'', Waterside Press, Winchester, 1996, pp. 215-242. ISBN 1-872870-32-5
*Aleksander Gella, ''Development of Class Structure in Eastern Europe: Poland and Her Southern Neighbors'', State University of New York Press, Albany, 1989. ISBN 0-88706-833-2
*Juliana Geran Pilon, ''The Bloody Flag. Post-Communist Nationalism in Eastern Europe. Spotlight on Romania'' (''Studies in Social Philosophy & Policy No. 16''), Transaction Publishers, New Brunswick & London, 1992. ISBN 1-56000-620-X
*Roger Griffin, ''The Nature of Fascism'', Routledge, London, 1993. ISBN 0-415-09661-8
*Arnold D. Harvey, ''Collision of Empires: Britain in Three World Wars, 1793-1945'', Continuum International Publishing Group, London, 1992. ISBN 1-85285-078-7
*Rebecca Ann Haynes, , in ''Central Europe'', Vol. 3, No. 2, November 2005, pp. 99-120; republished by University College London's 
*Radu Ioanid, "Romania", in David S. Wyman, Charles H. Rosenzveig (eds.), ''The World Reacts to the Holocaust'', Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore & London, 1996, pp. 225-252. ISBN 0-8018-4969-1
*Michelle Kelso, "Gypsy Deportations from Romania to Transnistria, 1942-44", in Karola Fings, Donald Kenrick (eds.), ''In the Shadow of the Swastika: Volume 2: The Gypsies during the Second World War'', University of Hertfordshire Press, Hatfield, 1999, pp. 95-130. ISBN 0-900458-85-2
*Padraic Kenney, ''The Burdens of Freedom: Eastern Europe since 1989'', Zed Books, London, 2006. ISBN 1-84277-663-0
*Peter C. Kent, ''The Lonely Cold War of Pope Pius XII: The Roman Catholic Church and the Division of Europe, 1943-1950'', McGill-Queen's University Press, Montreal & Kingston, 2002. ISBN 0-7735-2326-X
*Charles King, ''The Moldovans: Romania, Russia, and the Politics of Culture'', Hoover Press, Stanford, 2000. ISBN 0-8179-9792-X
*Walter Laqueur, ''Fascism: Past, Present, Future'', Oxford University Press, Oxford etc., 1997. ISBN 0-19-511793-X
*Philip Morgan, ''Fascism in Europe, 1919-1945'', Routledge, London, 2003. ISBN 0-415-16943-7
*David Nicholls, ''Adolf Hitler: A Biographical Companion'', ABC-CLIO, Santa Barbara, 2000. ISBN 0-87436-965-7
*William O. Oldson, ''A Providential Anti-Semitism. Nationalism and Polity in Nineteenth-Century Romania'', American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia, 1991. ISBN 0-87169-193-0
*Z. Ornea, ''Anii treizeci. Extrema dreapta româneasca'', Editura Funda?iei Culturale Române, Bucharest, 1995. ISBN 973-9155-43-X
*Monty Noam Penkower, ''The Jews Were Expendable: Free World Diplomacy and the Holocaust'', Wayne State University Press, Detroit, 1988. ISBN 0-8143-1952-1
*Antony Polonsky, Joanna B. Michlic, introduction to ''The Neighbors Respond: The Controversy over the Jedwabne Massacre in Poland'', Princeton University Press, Princeton, 2004, pp. 1-43. ISBN 0-691-11306-8
*Sabrina P. Ramet, "The Way We Were-And Should Be Again? European Orthodox Churches and the 'Idyllic Past' ", in Timothy A. Byrnes, Peter J. Katzenstein (eds.), ''Religion in an Expanding Europe'', Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2006. ISBN 0-521-85926-3
*Steven D. Roper, ''Romania: The Unfinished Revolution'', Routledge, London, 2000. ISBN 90-5823-027-9
*Michael Shafir, "The Mind of Romania's Radical Right", in Sabrina P. Ramet (ed.), ''The Radical Right in Central and Eastern Europe since 1989'', Penn State University Press, University Park, 1999, pp. 213-232. ISBN 0-271-01811-9
*Ottmar Tra?ca, , in the Romanian Academy George Bari? Institute of History's ''Historica Yearbook'' 2008, pp. 377-425
*Francisco Veiga, ''Istoria Garzii de Fier, 1919-1941: Mistica ultrana?ionalismului'', Humanitas, Bucharest, 1993. ISBN 973-28-0392-4
*Petru Weber, "Die Wahrnehmung des"Domestic Holocaust"im Rumänien der Nachkriegsjahre", in Regina Fritz, Carola Sachse, Edgar Wolfrum (eds.), ''Nationen und ihre Selbstbilder. Postdiktatorische Gesellschaften in Europa'', Wallstein Verlag, Göttingen, 2008, pp. 150-167. ISBN 978-3-8353-0212-9
*Gerhard L. Weinberg, ''Germany, Hitler, and World War II: Essays in Modern German and World History'', Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1996. ISBN 0-521-56626-6
*George W. White, ''Nationalism and Territory. Constructing Group Identity in Southeastern Europe'', Rowman & Littlefield, Lanham, 2000. ISBN 0-8476-9809-2
|-
'''Oskar Angelus''' (May 7, 1892 - November 3, 1979) was an Estonian politician and Collaboration with the Axis Powers during World War II#Estonia|collaborator with Nazi Germany.
Angelus was born in Harjumaa, Governorate of Estonia, Russian Empire, the son of Karl Angelus and Sophie Auguste Johanna Angelus (''née'' Eichhorn).
In 1911, Angelus graduated from the University of Dorpat. He participated in the Estonian War of Independence and was awarded the Cross of Liberty, Grade III. Until 1940, he worked at the Estonian Department of Internal Affairs. In 1941, after the German occupation of Estonia and the establishment of the Estonian Self-Administration (which was subordinated to Reichskomissariat Ostland), Angelus was made Director for Home Affairs. In this position, he established the Estonian Security Police and SD, which arrested, prosecuted, and handed over to the German authorities Soviet collaborators, as well as the remaining Estonian Jews and Roma.
When the German forces retreated from Estonia in 1944, Angelus fled to Germany. He stayed there until 1950, when he relocated to Sweden. Angelus lived in the Scanian city of Lund until his death in 1979, and was never prosecuted for his role in the Holocaust.
'''Jean-Paul Akayesu''' (born 1953) is a former teacher, school inspector, and Republican Democratic Movement (MDR) politician from Rwanda.  He served as mayor of Taba, Rwanda|Taba commune from April 1993 until June 1994.
As mayor, Akayesu was responsible for performing executive functions and maintaining order in Taba, meaning he had command of the communal police and any gendarmes assigned to the commune.  He was subject only to the prefect. He was considered well-liked and intelligent.
During the Rwandan Genocide of mid-1994, many Tutsis were killed in Akayesu's commune, and many others were subject to violence and other forms of hatred.  Akayesu not only refrained from stopping the killings, but personally supervised the murder of various Tutsis. e.g. nr. 648 He also gave a death list to other Hutus, and ordered house-to-house searches to locate Tutsis.
Akayesu was arrested in Zambia in October 1995, making Zambia the first African nation to extradite criminals to the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR).
He stood trial for 15 counts of genocide, crimes against humanity, including rape during the Rwandan Genocide and violations of the Geneva Convention.  Pierre-Richard Prosper was the lead prosecutor.  Akayesu's defence team argued that Akayesu had no part in the killings, and that he had been powerless to stop them. In short, the defence argued, Akayesu was being made a scapegoat for the crimes of the people of Taba.
Despite this defence, the ICTR found him guilty of 9 counts of genocide and crimes against humanity, but Not Guilty of Grave Breaches of the Geneva Conventions. This was notable in that it was the first time that the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide was enforced and in doing so clearly differentiated the mental element of the crime Genocide from the mental element in the breaches of the Geneva Conventions. The court clarified that Genocide is a specific crime that takes the accused outside of the scope of armed conflict  On October 2, 1998, Akayesu was sentenced to life imprisonment.
He was represented by Montreal lawyer John Philpot, brother of Parti Québécois politician and author Robin Philpot; this connection later surfaced in the Quebec general election, 2007|2007 Quebec general election after statements from Robin Philpot's book ''Rwanda 1994: Colonialism Dies Hard'' appearing to deny the extent of the genocide were widely publicized.
Here is the relevant section of the September 1999 United Nations report: Fourth Annual Report of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda to the General Assembly (September 1999).
''"Report of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994":''
''The Prosecutor v. Jean Paul Akayesu (ICTR-96-4-T)''
''14.  On 2 September 1998, Trial Chamber I of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, composed of Judges Laïty Kama, Presiding, Lennart Aspegren and Navanethem Pillay, found Jean Paul Akayesu guilty of 9 of the 15 counts proffered against him, including genocide, direct and public incitement to commit genocide and crimes against humanity (extermination, murder, torture, rape and other inhumane acts).  Jean Paul Akayesu was found not guilty of the six remaining counts, including the count of complicity in genocide and the counts relating to violations of article 3 common to the Geneva Conventions and of Additional Protocol II thereto.''
''15.  The Akayesu judgement includes the first interpretation and application by an international court of the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide.''
''16.  The Trial Chamber held that rape, which it defined as "a physical invasion of a sexual nature committed on a person under circumstances which are coercive", and sexual assault constitute acts of genocide insofar as they were committed with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a targeted group, as such.  It found that sexual assault formed an integral part of the process of destroying the Tutsi ethnic group and that the rape was systematic and had been perpetrated against Tutsi women only, manifesting the specific intent required for those acts to constitute genocide.''
''17.  On 2 September 1998, Jean Paul Akayesu was sentenced to life imprisonment for each of the nine counts, the sentences to run concurrently.''
''18.  Both Jean Paul Akayesu and the Prosecutor have appealed against the judgement rendered by the Trial Chamber.''
Akayesu is serving his sentence in a prison in Mali.
The trial is the subject of the 2015 documentary film, ''The Uncondemned''.
*
'''Edward J. "Eddie" Adams''' (1887 - November 22, 1921) was a notorious American criminal and serial killer in the Midwest.  He murdered seven people-including three policemen-during a period of around 14 months, and wounded at least a dozen others. At age 34, Adams was surrounded and then killed by police in Wichita, Kansas.
Edward J. "Eddie" Adams was born in 1887 on a farm in Hutchinson, Kansas as William Joseph Wallace. His father died when he was young and his mother remarried. He had a strong disdain for his stepfather, as well as for physical labor. He learned the barber trade and moved to Wichita in the early 20th century. There he met John Callahan and quickly became involved in Rum-running|bootlegging, petty robberies, and car theft.
Adams was handsome and charismatic, and attracted many women and hangers-on. His wife left him after growing weary of his illegal activities and infidelities.
He soon formed his own gang and began committing bank and train robberies throughout Kansas, Missouri, and Iowa, eventually earning the reputation as the premier bandit in the Midwest by the early days of Prohibition.
In 1920, through Callahan, Adams formed a partnership with outlaw brothers Ray and Walter Majors and, on September 5, attempted a daylight robbery against a notorious Kansas City, Missouri|Kansas City gambling den on Grand Boulevard (Kansas City, Missouri)|Grand Avenue owned by Harry Trusdell. However, a shootout between the bandits and tough employees of the illegal casino would result in the death of gambler and gunman Frank Gardner and the eventual capture of the gang by police.
Adams was sentenced to life imprisonment in February 1921. The Majors brothers received lesser sentences by agreeing to plead guilty to robbery, and were both sentenced to five years' imprisonment. Both brothers would eventually die in prison. A third Majors brother involved in the botched robbery attempt, Dudley, escaped from the scene only to be later arrested and serve time in Delaware.
While being transported to the Missouri State Penitentiary in Jefferson City, Missouri, Adams escaped custody by jumping off the train and several days later joined Julius Finney in the robbery of a bank and general store in Cullison, Kansas on February 11, 1921. He was captured on February 17, 1921 near Garden Plain, Kansas by a posse, after wrecking a stolen car under a bridge. Convicted of bank robbery, Adams was sentenced to serve 10 to 30 years at the Kansas State Penitentiary in Lansing, Kansas|Lansing, in addition to his life sentence in Missouri for murder.
On August 13, Adams once again successfully escaped imprisonment after sabotaging the prison power plant and scaling the prison walls during the night, along with inmates Frank Foster, George Weisberger and D.C. Brown. The driver of the getaway car was Billy Fintelman, a World War I veteran who had turned to a life of crime. With the exception of Brown (who was recaptured days later), the fugitives would elude capture from state authorities and eventually formed what would become the newest incarnation of the Adams Gang.
By September of that year, joined by Fintelman, the gang robbed around $10,000 from banks in Rose Hill, Kansas|Rose Hill and Haysville, Kansas. During the Haysville robbery, Adams pistol-whipped 82-year-old James Krievell for no apparent reason, who later died of a fractured skull.
On October 8, police attempted to trap the gang near Anoly, Kansas, however the gang managed to escape after a gunfight which left Deputy Benjamin Fisher wounded. The gang was spotted eleven days later after stealing $500 in silver from a bank near Osceola, Iowa.  This was followed by another attempt by a posse to apprehend the gang just south of Murray, Iowa, where the gang rested for several hours along a gravel road just a few miles from town. Having spotted the gang's vehicle, suspicious farmer C.J. Jones contacted Murray Sheriff Ed West, and a group was formed to investigate and intervene. Upon approaching the vehicle, Sheriff West was met at point blank range with a revolver to his face that failed to fire. He was able to take cover and a shootout followed in which several members of the posse were seriously injured. Jones, having heard the gun battle from his farm up the road, grabbed his shotgun and ran to aid the posse. The gang, who had by now fled from the original site, drove up the road and exchanged fire with Jones, which left him mortally wounded.
Heading for Wichita, the gang's crime spree continued robbing 11 stores in Muscotah, Kansas and abducting and later robbing two motorcycle officers outside Wichita, where their motorcycles were set on fire.
Back in Wichita, on November 5, 1921, Adams shot and killed Patrolman A.L. Young in cold blood while Young was on duty. The motive behind the killing was said to be a mutual love interest who had chosen the company of the officer over the outlaw.
The gang then committed their most successful robbery with the theft of $35,000 after robbing a Santa Fe express train near Ottawa, Kansas.
On the evening of November 20, 1921, Adams, along with Foster, Nellie Miles (a local madam and long-time friend of Adams), George J. McFarland (a local thug and bootlegger), and two alleged prostitutes, were joyriding around Wichita. Another car carrying Fintelman, his wife, Weisberger, P.D. Orcutt, and two unnamed ladies, followed at high speeds. Two motorcycle policemen pulled over the vehicle carrying Adams and a gunshot came from the vehicle-it is unknown whether the shot was fired by Adams or Foster-killing patrolman Robert Fitzpatrick. The outlaws sped away, released the women, and fled south into Cowley County, Kansas|Cowley County.
Later that night, the trio ran out of gas and stopped at a farm, where Adams attempted to steal a vehicle from farmer George Oldham. When Oldham resisted, Adams shot and killed him. Adams and Foster took the car, while McFarland ran away alone into the night. The duo returned to Wichita in the stolen car. The next day, Adams and Billy Fintelman went to McFarland's house to look for him, only to find two officers waiting. Adams shot officer Ray Casner non-fatally while the other policeman hid under a bed. Adams once again escaped.
Adams hid out until the funeral of fallen officer Fitzpatrick on November 22, at which he assumed the bulk of the police force would be present. He had planned to rent a car to leave town for good, but the proprietor of the garage recognized him and contacted police. Three officers arrived on the scene. Adams shot at them, fatally wounding detective Charles Hoffman, who had pulled Adams to the ground. Officer Charles Bowman was also hit by gunfire. D.C. Stuckey, hiding behind a pillar, shot Adams three times and killed him.
Eddie Adams' body was publicly displayed in the City Undertaking Parlor in a grisly celebration of the end of a reign of terror. More than 9,000 people viewed the slain outlaw.
In the end, 18 people were arrested as accomplices and hangers-on of Adams. Four were sent to the Kansas State Penitentiary, including Frank Foster, who was sentenced to remain there for life.
*List of Depression-era outlaws
*Newton, Michael. ''Encyclopedia of Robbers, Heists, and Capers''. New York: Facts On File Inc., 2002.
*Wellman, Paul. ''A Dynasty of Western Outlaws''. New York: Bonanza Books, 1961.
*The Wichita Eagle Beacon. ''The First One Hundred Years''. Wichita: Eagle Beacon Publishing Co., 1972, page 49.
*
*, November 23, 1921
'''Charles Frederick Albright''' (born August 10, 1933) is an American killer and diagnosed psychopath from Dallas, Texas, who was convicted of killing one woman and suspected of killing two others in 1991. He is incarcerated in the Texas Department of Criminal Justice#Psychiatric units|John Montford Psychiatric Unit in Lubbock, Texas.
A career criminal, Albright has previously served jail terms for other offenses.
Born in Amarillo, Texas, Albright was adopted from an orphanage by Delle and Fred Albright.
His adoptive mother, who was a schoolteacher, was very strict and overprotective of him. She accelerated his education and helped him skip two grades.
When he got his first gun as a teenager, he killed small animals with it. His mother would help him stuff them, due to his interest in becoming a taxidermist.
At age 13, he was already a petty thief and was arrested for aggravated assault.
At age 15, he graduated from high school and enrolled at North Texas University. He expressed an interest in training as a medical doctor and a surgeon. He undertook pre-med training but failed to complete it.
At age 16, the police caught him with some stolen petty cash, along with two handguns and a rifle. He spent a year in jail.
After his release from jail, he attended Arkansas State Teachers College and majored in pre-med studies. After being found with stolen items, he was expelled from the college but was not prosecuted.
Apparently unfazed, he falsified a degree. He stole documents and forged signatures, giving himself fictitious bachelor's and master's degrees.
He married his college girlfriend, and they had a daughter. His wife was a teacher. He continued to forge checks. He was caught in this deception while he was teaching at a high school and was placed on probation.
In 1965, he and his wife separated, divorcing in 1974.
He was then caught stealing hundreds of dollars' worth of merchandise from a hardware store and received a two-year prison sentence. He served less than six months before being released.
During this time he began to befriend and gain the trust of his neighbors. He was even asked by local residents to babysit their children.
In 1981, while visiting some friends, he sexually molested their 9-year-old daughter. He was prosecuted, pled guilty, and received probation. He later claimed that he was innocent but had pled guilty to avoid "a hassle."
In 1985 in Arkansas, Albright met a woman named Dixie. He invited her to live with him. Soon she was paying his bills and supporting him. He delivered newspapers in the early morning, apparently to visit prostitutes without arousing Dixie's suspicion.
Mary Lou Pratt, 33, a well-known prostitute in the Oak Cliff neighborhood of Dallas was found dead. She had been shot in the back of the head with a .44 Magnum|.44-caliber gun. The medical examiner reported that the killer had removed both of her eyes and had apparently taken them with him.
Susan Peterson, a prostitute, was found nearly nude. She had been shot three times: in the top of her head, in her left breast, and in the back of her head. She had been dumped in South Dallas, just outside city limits. The medical examiner found that her eyes had been removed.
Shirley Williams, a part-time prostitute, was found dead, laying near a school. Her eyes had been removed. She had facial bruises and a broken nose, and had been shot in the face and through the top of her head.
On March 22, 1991, Albright was arrested and charged with three counts of murder. His trial began on December 13, 1991. The evidence was mostly circumstantial. Hairs found at the Williams murder site matched Albright's hair.
On December 18, 1991, the jury deliberated and found him guilty only of the murder of Shirley Williams.
* List of American serial killers
'''Howard Arthur Allen''' (born  February 10, 1949) is a serial killer from Indianapolis, Indiana. He murdered three elderly people and also committed assault, burglary, and arson.
On June 11, 1988, he was sentenced to death by lethal injection for the murder of Ernestine Griffin. On August 30, 1988, he was placed on death row where he spent the next 25 years awaiting a ruling by a U.S. District Court on a petition for a writ of habeas corpus.
* List of serial killers in the United States 
* List of United States death row inmates
*
'''Richard Angelo''' (born August 29, 1962) is an American Serial Killer and former nurse at the Good Samaritan Hospital Medical Center (West Islip, New York)|Good Samaritan Hospital in West Islip, New York. In 1989, he was convicted of murdering several of his patients and sentenced to 50-years-to-life in prison.
He became known as the "Angel of Death."
Angelo was born on August 29, 1962, to parents who were both working in the educational sector.
His mother was an economics teacher, and his father was a high school guidance counselor for the Lindenhurst, New York|Lindenhurst school district on Long Island. He graduated from St. John the Baptist Diocesan High School in 1980 and then entered a two-year nursing program at Farmingdale State College, where he was a well-regarded honor student.
Angelo first came to the attention of the public in October 1987 when he was suspected of poisoning a patient at the Good Samaritan Hospital on Long Island, where he worked as a nurse.
He was accused of injecting Gerolamo Cucich with a drug into his I.V. Cucich did not feel well after the injection, so he paged another nurse to help him. Later it was found that he had Pavulon in his urine, which he had not been prescribed.
He was arrested for assault on the 73-year-old patient because he was the only person to match the description given to the police (a "heavyset man with a dark beard and glasses").
Following his arrest, he confessed to having poisoned other patients with Pavulon and Anectine. As a result, as many as 30 recently deceased patients were exhumed and examined for traces of these powerful paralyzing agents.
It was later concluded that he had poisoned at least 35 people at the hospital while working there for seven months. The poisoning resulted in ten deaths. He claimed that his motive was to portray himself as a hero. After poisoning his victims, he would wait until they went into cardiac arrest and then come by and save them in front of his colleagues.
He became known as the "Angel of Death" and  was held in Suffolk County Jail for over a year, awaiting trial. He declined to pay his $50,000 bail, fearing for his safety - given the high-profile nature of the case.
In December 1989, Angelo was found guilty on two counts of murder, one count of manslaughter, and one count of criminally negligent homicide. He was also convicted of assault in connection with the deaths of four other patients, and he was suspected of being responsible for several other deaths.
On January 25, 1990, he was sentenced to 50-years-to-life in prison. He was 27 years old. He is serving his sentence in the Great Meadow Correctional Facility.
'''Benjamin (Tony) Atkins''' (August 26, 1968 - September 17, 1997), also known as the '''M-1 (Michigan highway)|Woodward Corridor Killer''', was an American serial killer who murdered 11 women in Detroit, Michigan, during a period of nine months between December 1991 and August 1992.
All the victims were found in vacant buildings, all had been raped and strangled. Most of them had been murdered in Highland Park, Michigan|Highland Park. Many of the victims were working as prostitutes, and Atkins said he was motivated by a hatred of prostitution.
During his trial, it was revealed that Atkins himself was raped at age 10 and had witnessed his mother engage in prostitution.
He was sentenced to eleven life sentences. On September 17, 1997, he died of an infection caused by HIV.
* Darlene Saunders, 35, attacked, raped, and sodomized in October 1991 in Highland Park.
* Debbie Ann Friday, 30, found raped, strangled, and sodomized on December 14, 1991 in Highland Park.
* Bertha Jean Mason, 26, found strangled, raped, and sodomized on December 30, 1991 in Detroit.
* Patricia Cannon George, 36, found strangled, raped, and sodomized on January 3, 1992 in Detroit.
* Vickie Truelove, 39, found sodomized, strangled, and raped, on January 25, 1992 in Detroit.
* Valerie Chalk, 34, found repeatedly sodomized, raped, and strangled, on February 17, 1992 at Monterey Motel, Room 68, Highland Park.
* Juanita Hardy, 23, found raped and strangled at Monterey Motel, Room 35, February 17, 1992.
* Unknown female's body found raped and strangled at Monterey Motel, Room 18, February 17, 1992.
* Brenda Mitchell, 38, found raped and strangled on April 9, 1992 in Highland Park.
* Vicki Beasley-Brown, 43, found raped and strangled on April 15, 1992 in Highland Park.
* Joanne O'Rourke, 40, found repeatedly raped, strangled on June 15, 1992 in Highland Park.
* Ocinena Waymer, 22, found beaten, raped, sodomized, and strangled on August 21, 1992 in Highland Park.
'''Rodney James Alcala''' (born '''Rodrigo Jacques Alcala Buquor'''; August 23, 1943) is a convicted rapist and serial killer. He was sentenced to death in California in 2010 for five murders committed in that state between 1977 and 1979.Perelman, Marina (March 8, 2011). . NBC Bay Area. Retrieved March 14, 2011.
One police detective called Alcala "a killing machine"Baum, G. and Esquivel, P. . ''Los Angeles Times'', January 28, 2011, Retrieved March 14, 2011. and others have compared him with Ted Bundy.Allen, Nick (February 26, 2010). . ''The Daily Telegraph''. Retrieved November 3, 2012. A homicide investigator familiar with the evidence speculates that he could have murdered as many as 50 women, while other estimates have run as high as 130. Prosecutors say that Alcala "toyed" with his victims, strangling them until they lost consciousness, then waiting until they revived, sometimes repeating this process several times before finally killing them.Pelisek, C (March 20, 2010): . ''LA Weekly''. Retrieved September 1, 2011 Police discovered a collection of more than 1,000 photographs taken by Alcala, mostly of women and teenage boys, many in sexually explicit poses. They speculate that some of his photographic subjects could be additional victims.Tresniowski A. and Breuer H., . ''People Magazine'', April 19, 2010, pp. 86-90. Retrieved 2010-07-26.  In 2016, he was charged with the 1977 murder of a woman identified as one of his photo subjects.
He is sometimes called the "''Dating Game'' Killer" because of his 1978 appearance on the television show ''The Dating Game'' in the midst of his murder spree.
Alcala was born Rodrigo Jacques Alcala Buquor in San Antonio, Texas|San Antonio, Texas, to Raoul Alcala Buquor and Anna Maria Gutierrez. In 1951, his father moved the family to Mexico.  After he abandoned them three years later, his mother moved Rodney and his siblings to suburban Los Angeles when he was about 11 years old.Montaldo, Charles: . About.com. Retrieved October 25, 2011
He joined the U.S. Army in 1960, at age 17, where he served as a clerk. In 1964, after what was described as a "nervous breakdown", during which he went AWOL and hitchhiked from Fort Bragg to his mother's house, he was diagnosed with antisocial personality disorder  by a military psychiatrist and discharged on medical grounds. Other diagnoses later proposed by various psychiatric experts at his trials included narcissistic personality disorder, borderline personality disorder, and (from homicide expert Vernon Geberth) malignant narcissistic personality disorder with psychopathy and sexual sadism comorbidities.Sands, Stella ''The Dating Game Killer: The True Story of a TV Dating Show, a Violent Sociopath, and a Series of Brutal Murders'' p. 367 (2011)
After leaving the Army, Alcala graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles|UCLA School of Fine Arts and later studied film under Roman Polanski at New York University.
Alcala committed his first known crime in 1968: A motorist in Los Angeles called police after watching him lure an eight-year-old girl named Tali Shapiro48 Hours Mystery (September 25, 2010): . CBS News. Retrieved 2010-09-26. into his Hollywood, California|Hollywood apartment. The girl was found alive, raped and beaten with a steel bar, but Alcala had fled. To evade the resulting arrest warrant he left the state and enrolled in the NYU film school, using the name "John Berger". In 1971, he obtained a counseling job at a New Hampshire arts camp for children using a slightly different alias, "John Burger".  In June 1971, Cornelia Michel Crilley, a 23-year-old Trans World Airlines flight attendant, was found raped and strangled in her Manhattan apartment. Her murder would remain unsolved for 40 years.Secret, Mosi (February 4, 2011). . ''The New York Times''. Retrieved March 1, 2011
The FBI added Alcala to its list of Ten Most Wanted Fugitives in early 1971;Pelisek, C (January 21, 2010). . LA Weekly, retrieved May 19, 2016. a few months later, two children attending the arts camp noticed his photo on an FBI poster at the post office. Alcala was arrested and extradited to California. By then, Tali Shapiro's parents had relocated their entire family to Mexico and refused to allow her to testify at Alcala's trial. Unable to convict him of rape and attempted murder without their primary witness, prosecutors were forced to permit Alcala to plead guilty to a lesser charge of assault.Frere, Eileen (March 2, 2010). . KABC. Retrieved March 2, 2011. He was paroled after 34 months, in 1974, under the "indeterminate sentencing" program popular at the time, which allowed parole boards to release offenders as soon as they demonstrated evidence of rehabilitation. Less than two months after his release, he was re-arrested after assaulting a 13-year-old girl identified in court records as "Julie J.", who had accepted what she thought would be a ride to school. Once again, he was paroled after serving two years of an "indeterminate sentence".Pelisek, Christine (January 21, 2010). . ''OC Weekly''. Retrieved March 19, 2010.
In 1977, after Alcala's second release from prison, his Los Angeles parole officer took the unusual step of permitting a repeat offender-and known wiktionary:flight risk|flight risk-to travel to New York City.  NYPD Cold case (criminology)|cold-case investigators now believe that a week after arriving in Manhattan, Alcala killed Ellen Jane Hover, 23, daughter of the owner of Ciro's, a popular Hollywood nightclub and goddaughter of Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr., ''Inside Edition'', January 27, 2011, Retrieved September 2, 2011 Her remains were found buried on the grounds of the Rockefeller Estate in Westchester County, New York|Westchester County.
In 1978, Alcala worked for a short time at the ''Los Angeles Times'' as a typesetter, and was interviewed by members of the Hillside Strangler task force as part of their investigation of known sex offenders. Although Alcala was ruled out as the Hillside Strangler, he was arrested and served a brief sentence for marijuana possession.
During this period, Alcala convinced hundreds of young men and women that he was a professional fashion photographer, and photographed them for his "portfolio." A ''Times'' co-worker later recalled that Alcala shared his photos with workmates. "I thought it was weird, but I was young, I didn't know anything," she said. "When I asked why he took the photos, he said their moms asked him to. I remember the girls were naked."Pelisek, C (February 10, 2010): . ''LA Weekly''. Retrieved September 1, 2011 "He said he was a professional, so in my mind I was being a model for him," said one of the women, who allowed Alcala to photograph her in 1979. The portfolio also included "... spread after spread of [naked] teenage boys," she said. Most of the photos are sexually explicit, and most remain unidentified. Police fear that some of the subjects may be additional cold-case victims.  In 1979, according to later trial testimony, Alcala knocked unconscious and raped 15-year-old Monique Hoyt while she was posing for photographs.
In 1978, despite his status as a convicted rapist and registered sex offender, (September 25, 2010). CBS News. Retrieved November 5, 2013. Alcala was accepted as a contestant on ''The Dating Game''. By then he had already killed at least two women in California and two others in New York. Host Jim Lange introduced him as a "successful photographer who got his start when his father found him in the darkroom at the age of 13, fully developed. Between takes you might find him skydiving or motorcycling."
Actor Jed Mills, who competed against Alcala as "Bachelor #2", later described him as a "very strange guy" with "bizarre opinions".  Alcala won the contest, and a date with "bachelorette" Cheryl Bradshaw, who subsequently refused to go out with him,  according to published reports, because she found him "creepy". Criminal profiler Pat Brown, noting that Alcala killed Robin Samsoe and at least two other women after his ''Dating Game'' appearance, speculated that Bradshaw's rejection might have been an exacerbating factor. "One wonders what that did in his mind", Brown said. "That is something he would not take too well. [Serial killers] don't understand the rejection. They think that something is wrong with that girl: 'She played me. She played hard to get.'"
Robin Samsoe, a 12-year-old girl from Huntington Beach, California|Huntington Beach, disappeared somewhere between the beach and her ballet class on June 20, 1979. Her decomposing body was found 12 days later in the Los Angeles foothills.Carpio, AC (July 14, 2014). . ''Los Angeles Times''. Retrieved October 24, 2014. (February 25, 2010). KABC. Retrieved 2010-07-26. Samsoe's friends told police that a stranger had approached them on the beach, asking to take their pictures. Detectives circulated a sketch of the photographer, and Alcala's parole officer recognized him. During a search of Alcala's mother's house in Monterey Park, California|Monterey Park, police found a rental receipt for a storage locker in Seattle; in the locker, they found Samsoe's earrings.
Alcala was arrested in late 1979 and held without bail.  In 1980 he was tried, convicted, and sentenced to death for Samsoe's murder, but the verdict was overturned by the California Supreme Court because jurors had been improperly informed of his prior sex crimes. In 1986, after a second trial virtually identical to the first except for omission of the prior criminal record testimony, he was convicted again and sentenced to death, again. A Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals panel nullified the second conviction, in part because a witness was not allowed to support Alcala's contention that the park ranger who found Samsoe's body had been "hypnotized by police investigators".
While preparing their third prosecution in 2003, Orange County investigators learned that Alcala's DNA, sampled under a new state law (August 22, 2002). California Office of Attorney General. Retrieved April 2, 2015. (over his objections), matched semen left at the rape-murder scenes of two women in Los Angeles.  Additional evidence, including another cold case DNA match in 2004, led to Alcala's indictment for the murders of four additional women: Jill Barcomb, 18, a New York runaway found "rolled up like a ball" in a Los Angeles ravine in 1977,Pelisek, C. (February 12, 2010). . ''LA Weekly''. Retrieved October 24, 2011. and originally thought to have been a victim of the Hillside Strangler; Georgia Wixted, 27, bludgeoned in her Malibu, California|Malibu apartment in 1977; Charlotte Lamb, 31, raped and strangled, and left in the laundry room of an El Segundo, California|El Segundo apartment complex in 1978; and Jill Parenteau, 21, killed in her Burbank, California|Burbank apartment in 1979.  All of the bodies were found "posed...in carefully chosen positions".  Another pair of earrings found in Alcala's Seattle storage locker matched Lamb's DNA.
During his incarceration between the second and third trials, Alcala wrote and self-published a book, ''You, the Jury'', in which he claimed innocence in the Samsoe case and suggested a different suspect. He also filed two lawsuits against the California penal system, for a slip-and-fall incident and for refusing to provide him a low-fat diet.. (January 21, 2010). ''LA Weekly''. Retrieved 2010-07-26.. California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation. Retrieved on November 27, 2010. "Alcala, Rodney James C18300 67 06/25/1980 San Quentin".
In 2003 prosecutors entered a motion to join the Samsoe charges with those of the four newly discovered victims. Alcala's attorneys contested it; as one of them explained, "If you're a juror and you hear one murder case, you may be able to have reasonable doubt. But it's very hard to say you have reasonable doubt on all five, especially when four of the five aren't alleged by eyewitnesses but are proven by DNA matches." In 2006, the California Supreme Court ruled in the prosecution's favor, and in February 2010 Alcala stood trial on the five joined charges.
For the third trial Alcala elected to act as his own attorney. He took the stand in his own defense, and for five hours played the roles of both interrogator and witness, asking himself questions (addressing himself as "Mr. Alcala" in a deeper-than-normal voice), and then answering them.Noe, Denise (November 22, 2010). . ''Crime Magazine''. Retrieved 2011-02-17. During this bizarre self-questioning and answering session he told jurors, often in a rambling monotone, that he was at Knott's Berry Farm applying for a job as a photographer at the time Samsoe was kidnapped. He showed the jury a portion of his 1978 appearance on ''The Dating Game'' in an attempt to prove that the earrings found in his Seattle locker were his, not Samsoe's.Pelisek, C. (February 10, 2010): . ''LA Weekly''. Retrieved September 1, 2011 Jed Mills, the actor who competed against Alcala on the show, told a reporter that earrings were not yet a socially acceptable accoutrement for men in 1978. "I had never seen a man with an earring in his ear", he said. "I would have noticed them on him".
Alcala made no significant attempt to dispute the four added charges, other than to assert that he could not remember killing any of the women. As part of his closing argument, he played the portion of the Arlo Guthrie song "Alice's Restaurant" in which the protagonist tells a psychiatrist that he wants to "kill". (March 9, 2010) myfoxla. Retrieved 2010-07-26. After less than two days' deliberation the jury convicted him on all five counts of first-degree murder. A surprise witness during the penalty phase of the trial was Tali Shapiro, Alcala's first known victim. Psychiatrist Richard Rappaport, the only defense witness, testified that Alcala's borderline personality disorder could explain his testimony that he had no memory of committing the murders.
In March 2010, the Huntington Beach and New York City Police Departments released 120 of Alcala's photographs and sought the public's help in identifying them, in the hope of determining if any of the women and children he photographed were additional victims.Weichselbaum, Simone (April 21, 2010): . ''New York Daily News''. Retrieved 2011-02-17. Approximately 900 additional photos could not be made public, police said, because they were too sexually explicit. (March 12, 2010). CBS News ''48 Hours Mystery''. Retrieved 2011-02-17. In the first few weeks, police reported that approximately 21 women had come forward to identify themselves,. (April 12, 2010). CBS News ''48 Hours Mystery''. Retrieved 2011-02-17. and "at least 6 families" said they believed they recognized loved ones who "disappeared years ago and were never found".. (March 12, 2010). KTLA News. Retrieved 2011-02-17. None of the photos were unequivocally connected to a missing person case or unsolved murder until 2013 when a family member recognized the photo of Christine Thornton, 28, whose body was found in Wyoming in 1982 (see #Wyoming|below).
As of September 2016, 110 of the original photos remain posted online, and police continue to solicit the public's help with further identifications.. NBC New York. Retrieved September 21, 2016.
After his 2010 conviction, New York authorities announced that they would no longer pursue Alcala because of his status as a convict awaiting execution. Nevertheless, in January 2011, a Manhattan grand jury indicted him for the murders of Cornelia Crilley, the TWA flight attendant, and Ellen Hover, the Ciro's heiress, in 1971 and 1977, respectively.''New York Post'' (January 27, 2011.  Retrieved 2011-01-27 In June 2012 he was extradited to New York, where he initially entered not guilty pleas on both counts; (June 21, 2012). KTLA. Retrieved October 2, 2012. but in December he changed both pleas to guilty, citing a desire to return to California to pursue appeals of his death penalty conviction.Hays, Tom (December 14, 2012). Rodney Alcala, . The Huffington Post. Retrieved January 7, 2013. On January 7, 2013, a Manhattan judge sentenced Alcala to an additional 25 years to life.Rudegeair, Peter (January 7, 2013). . Reuters. Retrieved January 7, 2013. (The death penalty has not been an option in New York State since 2007.. Retrieved September 3, 2014.)
In 2010, Seattle police named Alcala as a "person of interest" in the unsolved murders of Antoinette Wittaker, 13, in July 1977, and Joyce Gaunt, 17, in February 1978.  Alcala rented the Seattle-area storage locker, in which investigators later found jewelry belonging to two of his California victims, in 1979.  Other cold cases were reportedly targeted for reinvestigation in New Hampshire, California, Arizona and New York.. ''Seattle Times'' (March 30, 2010), retrieved September 10, 2016.
In March 2011, investigators in Marin County, California, north of San Francisco, announced that they were "confident" that Alcala was responsible for the 1977 murder of 19-year-old Pamela Jean Lambson, who disappeared after making a trip to Fisherman's Wharf, San Francisco|Fisherman's Wharf to meet a man who had offered to photograph her. Her battered, naked body was subsequently found in Marin County near a hiking trail. With no fingerprints or usable DNA, charges are unlikely to be filed, but police claimed that there is sufficient evidence to convince them that Alcala committed the crime.. ''NBC Bay Area''. Retrieved March 14, 2011.
In September 2016, Alcala was charged with the murder of 28-year-old Christine Ruth Thornton, who disappeared in 1977.  In 2013, a relative recognized her as the subject of one of Alcala's photos made public by Huntington Beach PD and NYPD. Her body was found in Sweetwater County, Wyoming, in 1982, but was not identified until 2015 when DNA supplied by Thornton's relatives matched tissue samples from her remains.. ''CBS News''. Retrieved September 21, 2016.  Alcala admitted taking the photo, but not to killing the woman, who was approximately six months' pregnant at the time of her death. Thornton is the first alleged murder victim linked to the Alcala photos made public in 2010.. ''Orange County Register''. Retrieved September 21, 2016.  The 73-year-old Alcala was reportedly "too ill" to make the journey from California to Wyoming to stand trial on the new charges; he remains in California State Prison, Corcoran, pending further appeals of his death sentences. CrimeFeed.com (September 23, 2016), retrieved February 20, 2017.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! year of event
! Event, victim name indicates date of crime
! Offense; offender status/location
! Alias/''note''
|-
| 1961-64
| U.S. Army
|
| 
|-
| 1968
| Graduated from UCLA 
|  
|  
|-
| 1968
| Tali Shapiro 
| Rape, attempted murder; pleaded guilty to assault, 1971/California
| 
|-
| 1968-71
| Fugitive, student NYU Film School, camp counselor
| New York, New Hampshire
| John Berger, John Burger
|-
| 1971
| Cornelia Crilley 
| Murder; Indicted, 2011/New York 
|-
| 1971-74
| Incarcerated (Tali Shapiro conviction)
| California
| 
|-
| 1974
| "Julie J."
| Parole violation, providing marijuana to minor; Convicted, 1974/California
|
|-
| 1974-77
| Incarcerated ("Julie J." conviction)
| California
|  
|-
| 1977
| Ellen Hover
| Murder; Indicted, 2011/New York
| John Berger
|-
| 1977
| Worked as ''Los Angeles Times'' typesetter
| California 
|  
|-
|1977
|Antoinette Wittaker
|Murder; Suspect, Washington
|-
| 1977
| Jill Barcomb 
| Murder; Convicted, 2010/California
|  
|-
| 1977
| Questioned by FBI regarding Hover
| California
| Rodney Alcala, John Berger
|-
| 1977
| Georgia Wixted 
| Murder; Convicted, 2010/California
|  
|-
| 1977
| Pamela Jean Lambson
| Murder; Accused, 2011/California
|  
|-
| 1977
| Christine Ruth Thornton
| Murder; Charged, 2016/Wyoming
|  
|-
|1978
|Joyce Gaunt
|Murder; Suspect/Washington
|-
| 1978
| Interviewed by Hillside Strangler task force
| California
|  
|-
| 1978
| Incarcerated (marijuana possession)
| California
|  
|-
| 1978
| Contestant, ''The Dating Game''
| California
| 
|-
| 1978
| Charlotte Lamb 
| Murder; Convicted, 2010/California 
|  
|-
| 1979
| Jill Parenteau 
| Murder; Convicted, 2010/California
| 
|-
| 1979
| Robin Samsoe  
| Murder; Convicted, 1980, 1986, 2010/California
|  
|-
| 1979
| Arrested on suspicion of Samsoe murder
| California
|  
|-
| 1980
| Conviction #1, sentenced to death for Samsoe murder
| California
|  
|-
| 1984
| Conviction #1 overturned by California Supreme Court
| California
|  
|-
|1986
| Conviction #2, sentenced to death for Samsoe murder
| California
| 
|-
| 1994
| ''You, the Jury''
| Self-published book asserting innocence in Samsoe case
|  
|-
| 2001
| Conviction #2 overturned by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit 
| California
| 
|-
| 2003
| DNA collected, 4 additional murders discovered
| California 
|  
|-
| 2003
| Motion to join Samsoe case with 4 others proposed; contested by Alcala
| California
|  
|-
| 2006
| Case join granted by California Supreme Court
| California
| 
|-
| 2010
| Conviction #3, sentenced to death for murders of Samsoe, Parenteau, Lamb, Wixted, and Barcomb
| California
| 
|-
| 2011
| Indicted for murders of Hover, Crilley
| New York
|
|-
| 2013
| pleaded guilty; sentenced to 25 years to life for murders of Hover, Crilley
| New York
|
|}
*Criminal sentencing in the United States
*List of death row inmates in the United States
*  at About.com
* , ''Los Angeles Times'' 
* 
* , CBS
** 
'''Francisco de Assis Pereira''' (born November 29, 1967), also known as "O Maníaco do Parque" ("The Park Maniac"), is a Brazilian serial killer. He was arrested in 1998 for the rape and murder of 11 women and for assaulting nine others in a São Paulo park.
Francisco de Assis Pereira was born on November 29, 1967 in São Paulo (city)|São Paulo. He was named after the Italian saint Francis of Assisi.
Pereira found his victims by posing as a talent scout for a modeling agency. He would often use shoelaces to strangle his victims after raping them. Pereira worked as a motorcycle courier during the course of the crimes. Pereira was arrested on August 4, 1998 in Itaqui, Rio Grande do Sul,  ending a 23-day manhunt when he was reported to police after fisherman João Carlos Villaverde, who he was staying with, saw his picture on television.
He was eventually sentenced to a total of 268 years in prison. Pereira would go on to say "I was possessed by an evil force." and "I am a person with a good and a bad personality. Sometimes I am not able to dominate this dark side. I pray, I pray, but I cannot resist and then I chase after women. I wished that they would not go with me into the park, that they would run away." After being caught he claimed he was about to start cannibalizing his victims.
On December 18, 2000, inmates tried to kill Pereira during a riot at the Taubaté House of Custody and Psychiatric Treatment and four inmates were killed. Pereira was then moved to another psychiatric facility.
*
'''Norman Avzal Simons''' (born 12 January 1967), also known as the "'''Station Strangler'''", is a South African rapist and serial killer who was convicted in 1995 on one count of murder and one count of kidnapping Elroy van Rooy, age 10. He was sentenced to 35 years (25 for murder and 10 for kidnapping) in prison.
Simons was an intelligent individual, playing classical music and capable of speaking seven languages including English, Afrikaans, Xhosa and French. He was employed as a Grade 5 teacher at Alpine Primary School in Beacon Valley, Mitchell's Plain.
Simons is believed to have started his sporadic series of murders on 29 September 1986, He collected his moniker after it became apparent that most of his victims were lured away from train stations (similar modus operandi to Andrei Chikatilo).
Simons raped and sodomised his victims before strangling them. Victims were found face down with their hands tied behind their backs in shallow sandy graves. The victims' underwear was occasionally found around their necks, presumably used as a garrote. Hand-written notes were also found next to some victims. Simons' relationship with his older stepbrother seems to have a major bearing in his criminal activities. Simons alleges that his older stepbrother raped and sodomised him as a youngster. He also reports 'hearing voices' from his brother instructing him to kill. Simons' brother, an alcoholic rastafarian, was murdered in 1991.
Simons appeared before magistrates in 1995 on one charge of murder and kidnap. His trial lasted three months, leading to a conviction and life sentence. He is currently serving his sentence in Drakenstein Maximum Correctional Facility, Paarl. Simons appealed his conviction in 1998, but his conviction was upheld.
In 2005, an inquest was opened into the deaths of the remaining victims. After three years of further analysis, the victims' parents came no closer to an answer. On 9 December 2008, Regional Magistrate Marelize Rolle stated that she believed prima facie evidence showed Simons was probably responsible for the deaths of at least six of the other victims. However, due to the time lapse, she ruled out further prosecutions in the case.
 
Note on name: Norman Simons converted to Islam in 1993, taking on the name Avzal, but converted back to Christianity in 1994.Pistorious, M. 2005. ''Profiling Serial Killers and other crimes in South Africa''. Penguin Books, South Africa. page 170. ISBN 0-14-302482-5
'''Süleyman Aktas''' is a Turkish serial killer. Nicknamed "The Nailing Killer", he is responsible for five murders.
Süleyman Aktas was employed as a worker at the Turkish Electricity Company in Denizli, Turkey. He was severely injured by high voltage during works at a 31.5 kV electric power distribution line.
After this accident, he killed police superintendent Nuri Keskin in Antalya in 1986. He was arrested, and was placed in Manisa Psychiatric Hospital after the court ruled his mental disorder. Aktas stayed four and a half years in the hospital before his release. He returned to his hometown of Çambasi village in Bozkurt, Denizli.
In 1994, Süleyman Aktas killed four elderly neighbors by strangling three years after he came back to his hometown. He nailed the couples Ayse (65) and Ismail Günes (66), and Rukiye (77) and Ramazan Kocatepe (78) in the eyes and heads. In his testimony after his arrest, he told that "He can not stand nails. He wants to nail people in the head." Aktas was nicknamed "The Nailing Killer". He was hospitalized as diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. He escaped from the hospital, but was apprehended in the coach terminal.
In 2007, Aktas was seen publicly for the first time after twelve years in a rehabiliation show program of the hospital. At noon of May 28, 2008, he assaulted his roommate, the child killer Ömer Yilmaz, and wounded him by hitting him in the head with a rock in the exercise yard of the hospital, where he had been kept in a special department for 13 years. Yilmaz underwent a head surgery in a nearby state hospital, and survived the attack.
'''Dr Louay''' is an Iraqi  medical doctor accused of murdering wounded policemen, soldiers and officials in Kirkuk while pretending to treat them.
According to police, Louay administered anti-coagulants to pro-Coalition forces brought into the hospital for treatment, to excaberate their bleeding and causing a number of deaths.The Independent, , 23 March 2006 A police investigation revealed that he had killed 43 people from October 2005 to March 2006. He claimed to be recruited into Jamaat Ansar al-Sunna in August 2005.
He was arrested after Malla Yassin was arrested in early 2006, and confessed to being the leader of an insurgent cell that included Louay.
'''Valery Asratyan''' (, c. 1958 - 1992) was a Soviet serial killer, convicted for the killing of three women in Moscow between 1988 and 1990. Asratyan, a previously convicted serial rapist and child molester, committed an estimated over 20 rapes of girls and young women during the 1980's. Later posing as a film director, Asratyan used anesthesia to render victims unconscious, killing several out of fear of being sent to prison before being apprehended in 1990.
Asratyan was sentenced to death and executed in 1992.
Valery Asratyan (also spelled Hasratyan) was born in 1958, in Yerevan, Armenian SSR, Soviet Union, to ethnic Armenian parents. He grew up in a stable household in a family that was considered prosperous by Soviet standards, and never experience mistreatment or abuse during his childhood. In kindergarten, Asratyan would "play doctor" with other girls, where he would undress and would feel his "patient", and at 13-years-old lost his virginity to a woman 15-years his senior. He developed an interest in psychology and after finishing school he entered the Armenian State Pedagogical University in 1975 for a degree specializing in "Preschool psychology and pedagogy". Around this time Asratyan began reading ''Lolita'' by Vladimir Nabokov, a book about a man who enters a sexual relationship with an underage girl, believing the book's main character, Humbert, paralleled himself. Asratyan graduated from the university in 1980, and began work as a psychologist in a school for children suffering from cerebral palsy and polio.
In 1981, Asratyan married a woman from Moscow, the Soviet capital, and moved to the city with her the same year. Shortly after his relocation to Moscow, he began committing his first sexual crimes when he started raping young girls in the city, but was caught and sent to a penal colony. Asratyan was released in 1984 after serving only a two year sentence and almost immediately began committing rapes, again being convicted and imprisoned for two years in 1985. After his release in 1987, he moved to Valuyki, Belgorod Oblast, for a short time but soon returned to Moscow, where Asratyan's wife ended their relationship and kicked him out of the house. Asratyan met another woman with whom he entered a civil marriage, and moved in with the woman and her 14-year-old daughter. The two assisted him when he continued his crimes in Moscow where he began using potent psychotropic drugs, which included antipsychotics and tranquilizers, on his victims. Asratyan also made himself a fake ID to gain the trust of their victims, which he found in the area of the Children's World store.
In February 1988, Asratyan began posing a film director, and lured a girl into the apartment under the pretext of screen tests. Mixing the psychotropic drugs into her coffee, he waited for the girl to fall into unconsciousness, when he raped her for several hours, took money and valuables. Asratyan then brought her to a railway station in the Podolsky District of Moscow Oblast, just outside of Moscow, and left her there. The girl was found, but could not remember anything. During this period, Asratyan made more than a dozen rapes, and many of his victims would have been in his apartment for several days. Eventually Asratyan began seriously to think about the possibility of being caught, and in order to prevent his victims being able to trace his crimes, he began to kill them. Asratyan committed his murders with his next victims: his first victim died after intentionally being overdosed with a "cocktail" of psychotropic drugs, the second victim was killed with a knife, and the third was drowned.
In 1990, one of Asratyan's victims was left alive, and unlike previous victims had not completely lost her memory, reported him to the police. According to the victim, Asratyan offered women roles to play in his new movie, and showed police the area where she met him. Asratyan was arrested by a female police officer who had been invited to a "casting" in the same area as the surviving victim had met him.
Asratyan quickly confessed to 3 murders and over 10 rapes, as he was terribly afraid of being sent to prison and at his trial demanded the death penalty. As a convicted child rapist, Asratyan feared other prisoners would practice forcible sodomy on him, a common punishment in prisons for inmates who commit crimes against children. The court convicted Asratyan for the murders and sentenced him to the death penalty, and he was executed by firing squad in 1992.
'''Wolfgang Abel''' and '''Marco Furlan''' were arrested for a series of murders in Italy between 1977 and 1984. They claimed innocence, saying they were scapegoats for a police force that could not find the real criminals.
At each of these crime scenes was a leaflet, written in Italian, headed with the name "'''Ludwig'''" over a Nazi eagle and swastika. Each had a slogan, such as "We are the last of the Nazis" and "Death comes to those who betray the true god", and explained the reason for each murder. According to the leaflets the victims were chosen because they were "sub-human"- homosexuals, prostitutes, drug addicts who needed to be eliminated.
Abel and Furlan's criminal career together began in August 1977, when they burned a Roma drug addict alive with four molotov cocktails.
* In Padua they stabbed a casino worker to death. This was followed shortly by the beating and stabbing of a homosexual waiter in Venice who died from his thirty-four knife wounds.
* In Vicenza they axed a 51-year-old prostitute and crushed the skulls of two priests with a hammer.
* They burned a sleeping hitch-hiker to death in Verona.
* In Trento a homosexual priest was killed with a nail hammered in his forehead, followed by a chisel with a wooden cross on it.
* On 3 March 1984, in Castiglione delle Stiviere Abel and Furlan, dressed in Pierrot costumes, were caught dousing the carpet and furniture in a crowded discotheque with gasoline.
Despite being arrested in March 1984, their trial did not begin until December 1986, the intervening time spent in jail. The trial lasted until January 1987 when they were found guilty of 10 out of 27 counts of murder, and in February they were sentenced to 30 years in prison. However, in the appeal procedures both men were released on bail.
Abel moved to Mestrino and Furlan to Casale di Scodosia. Furlan fled the country. He was captured in May 1995 living in Crete under a false name and was returned to Italy. In the meantime the appeals court in Venice had sentenced both him and Abel to 27 years in prison. In prison Furlan attempted suicide.
In April 2008 Furlan appealed to be released into the care of social workers.Il Messaggero, 23 April 2008 (in Italian) This was refused, but arrangements were made for his release. He was released in January 2009.
* 
'''Ali Asghar Borujerdi''' (26 June 1934) is the first Iranian serial killer and rapist reported in the 20th century.
Moving to Iraq as a child with his family, he started assaulting, raping, and later murdering, adolescent boys in Baghdad since he was fourteen years old. Escaping back to Iran in 1933, he continued his murders in Tehran where he was eventually arrested and executed. Asghar Qatel was convicted for raping and killing 33 young adults, eight in Tehran and the rest in Baghdad.
Ali Asghar Borujerdi was born in 1893 in Borujerd, Western Iran. His father, Ali Mirza, was a famous road thief attacking caravans around Borujerd, Malayer and Persian Iraqincluding Qom, Saveh and Arak, Iran|Arak.
His family, including Ali Asghar, his mother, and his siblings left Borujerd to Karbala in Iraq when Asghar was eight years old.
Six years later, when Ali Asghar was fourteen, he moved on to Baghdad, where he started to sexually abuse adolescent boys. He learned to kill them in order to get rid of police who were observing him for assaulting and raping young adults. According to his testimony, he killed 25 people in Iraq before escaping back to Iran. In 1933, Ali Asghar was about to be reported to police after he was watched by another boy while he was raping and killing the last Iraqi teenager. Soon he found out that it was unsafe to stay in Baghdad, and as a result he immediately escaped back to Iran.
Asghar did not go back to his hometown of Borujerd. Instead he started his new life in the capital, Tehran, where soon he found it easy to trace and hunt new victims.
'''Ahmad Ahmadi''' (; 1885-1944), known as '''Pezeshk Ahmadi''' meaning Doctor Ahmadi, was born in Mashhad to Mohammad Ali Ahmadi. He was an uneducated man who worked as a nurse in different hospitals.
While he was employed at Tehran's Qasr prison, he was ordered to kill numerous political prisoners. Many political prisoners died under his notorious air injections. Some of the more famous were Mirza Mohammad Farrokhi Yazdi, Abdolhossein Teymourtash, Ali-Qoli Khan Bakhtiari|Sardar As'ad and his brother Khanbaba Khan As'ad, Taghi Arani, and Ayatollah Mirza Mohammad Najafi Khorasani (Ayatollah Aghazadeh).
When the allies stormed into Iran in 1941, Reza Shah|Reza Shah of the Pahlavi Dynasty was overthrown, and the judiciary, headed by Jalal Abdeh, under popular pressure, was appointed to take many infamous figures such as Ahmadi to trial for their notorious crimes during the first Pahlavi era.
After being released from exile in 1941, Iran Teymourtash travelled to Iraq and succeeded in arranging for Ahmadi's extradition to Iran on charges that he had killed her father, Abdolhossein Teymourtash.
Ahmadi, along with Sarpas Mokhtar (Central Police Chief), Mostafa Rasekh, and Hosein Niroumand, were arrested and sentenced for crimes committed during Reza Shah's arbitrary reign.
Ahmadi was found guilty for numerous murders by the court and was sentenced to death. He was executed in public in 1944 in Tehran's Toopkhaneh|Toopkhaneh Square.
*????? ?? ?? ??? ????? (''Iran in the Last Three Centuries'') by Alireza Avsati. Published Tehran, 2003. Vol. 1 ISBN 964-93406-6-1 Vol. 2 ISBN 964-93406-5-3
* These Three Women: Ashraf Pahlavi, Mariam Firouz, and Iran Teymourtash, (EEn Se Zan") by Massoud Behnoud.
*Amir Abdollah Tahmasebi
*Abdolhossein Teymourtash
*Iran Teymourtash
*Mahmud Khan Puladeen
*Colonel Pesian
The '''Joshi-Abhyankar serial murders''' were ten murders committed by Rajendra Jakkal,  Dilip Sutar, Shantaram Kanhoji Jagtap and Munawar Harun Shah of Pune, India between January 1976 and March 1977. All the murderers were commercial art students at the Abhinav Kala Mahavidyalaya, Roads in Pune#Tilak Road|Tilak Road, and were hanged for their crimes on 27 November 1983. The group had acquired a poor reputation on their college campus for robbery and drinking.
Prakash was a classmate  of killers at Abhinav . His  father, Sundar Hegde, ran a small restaurant (Vishwa) behind Abhinav Kala Mahavidyalaya. The group hatched a plot to kidnap Prakash for ransom. On 15 January 1976, the foursome and classmate Suhas Chandak picked up Prakash on a false pretence and took him to Jakkal's tin shed on Roads in Pune#Karve Road|Karve Road. They forced him to write a note to his father saying that he was leaving home. On the night of 16 January 1976, they gagged him, took him to Peshwe Park which is just meters from Hotel Vishwa. There they  strangled him with nylon rope, placed his body in an iron barrel, inserted some stones and dumped the barrel into the Park lake. The next day, they sent a ransom note to his father.
The gang moved to the city of Kolhapur in August 1976, but were unsuccessful    when they targeted the house of a local businessman.
Achyut Joshi, from Vijaynagar colony, was attacked on the night of 31 October. The group forced their way into his house, brandishing knives. Joshi and his wife Usha were the only ones at home. After tying the couple's hands and legs, the four strangled Joshi with nylon rope and suffocated his wife. When the Joshis' teenage son Anand arrived home, they stripped him naked and strangled him with nylon rope. The gang then stole several items, including a mangalsutra, a watch and several thousand rupees.
Yashomati Bafna's bungalow on Shankarseth Road was attacked on the evening of 22 November. However, Bafna and her two servants fought back and the assailants escaped by climbing a barbed-wire fence around the perimeter.
On 1 December 1976 at around 8 pm, the group attacked the Smriti bungalow on Bhandarkar Road belonging to the Abhyankars. There were five people in the house: noted Sanskrit scholar Kashinath Shastri Abhyankar (age 88); his wife Indirabai (age 76); their maid Sakubai Wagh (age 60), granddaughter Jai (age 21) and grandson Dhananjay (age 19). The four gained entrance by ringing the doorbell. When Dhananjay opened the door they stuffed his mouth with a ball of cloth, tied his hands and told him to direct them inside the house. The men killed each person by stuffing their mouths with a ball of cloth, tying their hands and legs and then strangling them with a nylon rope. The granddaughter, Jai, was stripped naked and forced to direct them to the valuables in the house before she was killed.
Anil Gokhale was the younger brother of a college friend, Jayant Gokhale. On the evening of 23 March 1977, Anil was supposed to meet his brother at the Alka Talkies and was offered a ride home by Jakkal on his motorcycle. He was taken to Jakkal's shed, and strangled with a nylon rope. His body was tied to an iron ladder, weighed down with boulders and dumped into the Mula-Mutha river near Bund Garden.
Assistant Commissioner of Police Madhusudan Hulyalkar led the investigation. On the evening of 24 March 1977, the body of Anil Gokhale surfaced near Yerwada. The police team, led by Police Inspector Manikrao Damame, noticed that the nylon ropes used to tie the body to the ladder were fastened in a manner identical to earlier murders. The police had initially thought the murders were a result of botched robberies, but were soon faced with the fact that they were following a group of serial killers. Cases like these were rare at that time in India, and the police began an intensive investigation to prevent additional deaths. When questioned by police, the four men contradicted each other about their movements in the city over the previous week. Satish Gore (a colleague) cracked under questioning, leaking information about Prakash Hegde's murder and the location of his body. The signatures of strangulation with nylon rope and a specific knot also helped police zero in on the culprits. Further confessions were made by another classmate, Suhas Chandak, who was a witness to the Hegde killing. The killers were apprehended on 30 March 1977.
Shamrao G. Samant, a senior criminal lawyer who had conducted many successful prosecutions for the state government, was appointed special public prosecutor for the trial. The case began on 15 May 1978 in Pune district, lasting more than four months. On 28 September 1978, they were sentenced to death by Pune Sessions Court Judge Waman Narayan Bapat. Their sentences were confirmed by the Bombay High Court on 6 April 1979, and their special leave petitions against their convictions and sentences were dismissed by the Supreme Court on 17 November 1980.
After both the High Court and Supreme Courts turned down their appeals, the accused approached the President of India for a pardon. The pardon was not granted, and the four were hanged at Yerwada Central Jail on 27 November 1983.
* ''Maaficha Sakshidar'' (1986), a film starring Nana Patekar 
* ''Paanch'' (2003), a film directed by Anurag Kashyap
* Episodes in Indian TV series Savdhaan India (2012)
*Episode in crime patrol 2015
*Auto Shankar
*Beer Man
*Charles Shobraj
*Noida serial murders
*Raman Raghav
*Stoneman
* Ramakant Kulkarni, ''Footprints on the Sands of Crime''. MacMillan India (2004), ISBN 978-1-4039-2361-5
'''Elias Abuelazam''' ( at the time of his booking. Abuelazam has been convicted in one of the murders, that of 49-year-old Arnold Minor in Flint, Michigan which occurred on August 2, 2010. He is currently serving a sentence of life imprisonment without the possibility of parole for that crime. As a result, Genesee County prosecutors have announced Abuelazam will not stand trial for the other crimes in their jurisdiction, nor will authorities in Toledo or Leesburg try him. ''The Flint Journal'' via MLive.com, October 5, 2012 He is currently incarcerated at Gus Harrison Correctional Facility in Adrian, Michigan as Michigan Department of Corrections inmate number 842658. Michigan Department of Corrections
Abuelazam was born in Ramla, in central Israel, to a well-to-do Christian Arab family. Haaretz August 12, 2010, CBS August 13, 2010, Eli Senyor, Israel News August 12, 2010  MSNBC August 13, 2010 As a child, he moved to the United States with his family after his mother remarried, and acquired a Green Card, but never gained US citizenship. According to the US State Department, Elias Abuelazam changed his name to Elias Abullazam in March 1995. Published: Thursday, August 12, 2010, Flint Journal.
Until 2008,
He worked as a clerk at Kingwater Market in Beecher, Michigan from July 5 to August 1, 2010. Most customers knew him as "Eli." He was cited for giving alcohol to a minor July 29, the same day a 59-year-old man was stabbed in Flint, Michigan. Abuelazam's legal address is in Bradenton, Florida, according to the warrant. He previously lived in Grand Blanc, Michigan, according to Michigan Secretary of State records. Abuelazam most recently lived in a house that his uncle owns located on Maryland Avenue near Riegle Avenue on the east side of Flint, Michigan.
Abuelazam married Jessica Hirth (also known as Jessica Nimitz Abuelazam and Jessica divorced in 2007. In total, he was married twice. His ex-wife Jessica of Arlington, Texas, said that she was "shocked" at the news of his crimes.
Police and prosecutors claim that between May and August 2010, Abuelazam would drive around late at night, approach small framed men who were walking alone, ask for directions or help fixing his vehicle, a green-colored Chevrolet TrailBlazer, and then stab them, usually in the chest or stomach. Abuelazam's alleged victims have been mostly black, and police in Leesburg suspect the attacks may have been racially motivated, since the population there is mostly white. Genesee County, Michigan|Genesee County prosecutors, however, have declined to speculate on his motive, while noting the population of Flint is mostly black. WJRT-TV August 10, 2010
Abuelazam is also suspected of having stabbed a friend in the face with a screwdriver while on a visit to his family in Ramla in early 2010. Police did not pursue the case because the friend refused to press charges. Associated Press,   8/13/20, Jerusalem Post.
Leesburg, Virginia|Leesburg Police have said Abuelazam is also a suspect in an unsolved homicide from March 2009. WNEM-TV August 13, 2010
In Genesee County on August 4, 2010, it was announced that a string of stabbings that date back to May 2010 was the work of one man and a multi-jurisdictional task force was set up to investigate. ''The Flint Journal'' (via MLive.com) August 4, 2010 The next week on August 9, 2010 police in Leesburg connected three hammer attacks against black men there via their victims' descriptions of the suspect, video surveillance footage of the attacks that matches his description and vehicle, and the similar mode of operation. WJRT-TV August 9, 2010 The next day Toledo Police claimed a stabbing of a black man there also matched the suspect. WJRT-TV August 10, 2010
He was arrested August 5, 2010 in Arlington, Virginia|Arlington, Virginia, during a traffic stop. He was taken into custody because he had a warrant out for his arrest for simple assault and later released on personal bond.
Abuelazam was arrested by U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers on August 11, 2010 at 10:00 p.m. ET in Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, while preparing to board a Delta Air Lines flight bound for Tel Aviv. On August 13, 2010 he waived his right to fight extradition to Michigan. WJRT-TV August 13, 2010 Abuelazam's family hired Lansing, Michigan|Lansing based attorneys Brian Morley and Edwar Zeineh. ''The Flint Journal'' (via MLive.com) August 13, 2010 He was flown to Flint on August 26, 2010 and lodged in the Genesee County Jail.], on way to Genesee County Jail] ''The Flint Journal'' (via MLive.com) August 26, 2010 Abuelazam was held in solitary confinement, likely for his safety and because he is suspected of extremely violent crimes against black men in a city whose population is 66% black. ''The Flint Journal'' (via MLive.com) August 26, 2010 At his arraignment, he was ordered held without bond by the judge, even after the prosecutor asked for $10 million bail.
During the evidentiary hearing for the Arnold Minor murder case, the judge ruled that evidence of the other Genesee County attacks could be used in the trial. ''The Flint Journal'' (via MLive.com) October 28, 2011 The trial began on May 8, 2012. The prosecution's key piece of evidence was a drop of Minor's blood on a pair of pants found in Abeulezam's luggage. On May 15, the prosecution rested after calling 50 witnesses, including other victims and their relatives, several forensic experts, as well as Abuelazam's uncle who assisted police in his capture. ''The Washington Post'', May 15, 2012 Two days later on May 17, Abuelazam's attorneys presented an insanity defense. Their sole expert witness was a psychiatrist hired by his attorneys who diagnosed him with paranoid schizophrenia and said Abuelazam told him he committed the crimes because of "evil spirits." The doctor also said Abuelazam told him he attempted suicide in 1997 and was diagnosed as psychotic by an Israeli psychologist in 2009. ''The Flint Journal'' via MLive.com, May 17, 2012 The prosecution responded by attacking the psychiatrist's credibility, noting that his field of expertise is drug and alcohol addiction treatment. The next day, the prosecution refuted the psychiatrist's diagnosis with two of their own mental health experts. ''The Flint Journal'' via MLive.com, May 17, 2012 Two psychologists who testified on behalf of the prosecution agreed that although Abuelazam has an unspecified personality disorder and he lacked empathy, his attacks were too planned out and organized for him to be considered legally insane. ''The Flint Journal'' via MLive.com, May 18, 2012 ''The Flint Journal'' via MLive.com, May 18, 2012 On May 22, 2012, after only an hour of deliberation, the jury found Abuelazam guilty of Minor's murder. ''The Flint Journal'' via MLive.com, May 22, 2012 On June 25, 2012, Abuelazam was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. ''The Flint Journal'' via MLive.com, June 25, 2012
On August 26, 2010 the Genesee County Prosecutor's Office charged him with one count of assault with intent to commit murder for an attack on July 27, 2010. WJRT-TV August 12, 2010 On September 20, 2010 he was charged with four additional counts of assault to commit murder. The victims in those crimes are: Bill Fisher, who was attacked June 26, 2010; Richard Booker, who was attacked July 19, 2010 in Genesee Township, Michigan; Etwan Wilson, who was attacked August 1, 2010 near Pierson Road in northern Flint; and Da'Von Rawls of Flint. ''The Flint Journal'' (via MLive.com) September 20, 2010
On October 8, 2010 an Ohio grand jury indicted Abuelazam and charged him with felonious assault in the stabbing of church janitor Tony Leno in Toledo, Ohio. MLive.com via Associated Press October 8, 2010
On October 21, 2010 he was charged with murder in the stabbing deaths of Frank Kellybrew and Darwin Marshall of Flint, Michigan. ''The Flint Journal'' (via MLive.com) October 21, 2010
On November 4, 2010 he was charged with two counts of resisting and obstructing a police officer causing injury and three counts of resisting and obstructing a police officer after he attempted to punch a deputy and had to be tasered with the help of four other officers on October 27, 2010. . ''The Flint Journal'' (via MLive.com) November 4, 2010
On November 12, 2010 he was charged with malicious destruction of property for smashing out the windows of a car belonging to James Augsberger, boyfriend of witness Lucinda Mann. ''The Flint Journal'' (via MLive.com) November 12, 2010
On November 23, 2010 he was charged with assault with intent to murder in the stabbing of Antoine Jackson on July 12, 2010 in Burton, Michigan. WEYI-TV Posted: 12.09.2010 at 5:29 AM The Flint Journal'' (via MLive.com) November 23, 2010
Abuelazam hired a new attorney, Christopher M. Smith, who filed an appeal based on the original trial judge's rejection of a motion for a change of venue due to the extensive media coverage of the case which, they claimed, wrongly called him a serial killer, and refuted the judge's decision to allow evidence of the other attacks or testimony of his other alleged victims. On June 10, 2014, the Michigan Court of Appeals upheld Abuelazam's conviction. ''The Flint Journal'' via MLive.com, June 10, 2014  Smith then appealed that decision to the Michigan Supreme Court, who declined to hear it on November 25, 2014. ''The Flint Journal'' via MLive.com, November 26, 2014
On August 1, 2014 Abuelazam filed a case in federal court against the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the United States Attorney General asking to be deported to Israel to face charges of an attempted murder that happened on October 1, 2009. Michigan authorities think the lawsuit is frivolous and expect it to be dismissed, noting that it is legally impossible because of Abuelazam's life without parole status, since convicts can not be deported until their full sentence is served. ''The Flint Journal'' via MLive.com, August 26, 2014
The Abuelezam case was profiled on a July 8, 2013 episode of the Investigation Discovery show ''Blood, Lies & Alibis'' titled "Serial Slasher." It featured re-enactments of some of his attacks, the investigation and his arrest, actual footage of some of his attacks and his arrest and trial, as well as testimony by Genesee County law enforcement officials, local media, surviving victims, and Arnold Minor's relatives.
* from ''The Flint Journal'' - includes expansive biography and other new information.
*
'''Klaas Annink''' (June 18, 1710 - September 13, 1775), better known as '''Huttenkloas''', was a notorious Dutch serial killer in Twente, Netherlands. Records of his life frequently mention that he was born in Bentelo.
He was reputedly responsible, together with his wife Aarne Spanjers and his son, Jannes, for numerous robberies and murders in the region in and around Hengevelde.
In 1774, a merchant from Hanover investigated and found convincing evidence that Annink was responsible for the disappearance and murder of one of his family members. Huttenkloas was then arrested and held for 114 days in a specially-made chair.  Following a controversial trial, he and his wife were sentenced to death and executed.
The seat in which Klaas Annink sat, known as the "Chair of Huttenkloas", is still on display in the Ancient Chamber room in the Palthehuis Museum in Oldenzaal.
Klaas Annink's infamous nickname, Huttenkloas, has not been forgotten, having been adopted by a local brewery. The company Hengelose Huttenkloas B.V. has outlets in Twente, Salland, Drenthe, Achterhoek, selling Huttenkloas beer.
Also, the Dutch accordion player and singer Alexander Schoemaker, in 2009, released a CD about twents legends, including a ballad `de ballade van Hutnkloas`.
'''Angulimala''' (Pali language|Pali: "finger Buddhist prayer beads#Mala|necklace/garland"; Sinhala: ?????????, ; Chinese: ????) is an important early figure in Buddhism, particularly within the Theravada suttas. A ruthless serial killer who is Redemption (theology)#In Buddhism|redeemed by a sincere conversion to Buddhism, he is seen as an example of the redemptive power of the Buddha's teaching and the universal human potential for spiritual progress, regardless of one's background.
Two texts in the Pali canon concern themselves with Angulimala's initial encounter with the Buddha and his conversion. The first is the Theragatha, verses 866-91, and the second is the Angulimala Sutta in the Majjhima Nikaya.Thanissaro Bhikkhu (trans.): , translated from the Pali (Theragatha, verses 866-91)Thanissaro Bhikkhu (trans.): , translated from the Pali (Majjhima Nikaya 86) Both offer a fairly short description of Angulimala's encounter with the Buddha, and omit much of the background information later incorporated into the story (such as Angulimala being placed under an oath by a jealous teacher). These later additions- which appear in the sutta commentaries attributed to Buddhaghosa and Dhammapala (the Majjhima Nikaya commentary known as the Papancasudani (''Ps'') and the Therigatha commentary Paramattha-dipani (''Pad''), respectively) - may represent attempts by later commentators to "rehabilitate" the character of Angulimala - making him appear as a fundamentally good human being entrapped by circumstance, rather than as a vicious killer. The sutta texts themselves do not provide for any motive for Angulimala's actions, other than pure sadism.
According to the sutta and commentarial texts, omens seen at the time of Angulimala's birth (the flashing of weapons and the appearance of the 'constellation of thieves' in the sky) indicated that Angulimala would become a robber. Angulimala's father, the Brahmin chaplain to the king of Kosala, named him Ahimsaka ("the harmless one" - derived from the Sanskrit and Pali word Ahimsa), as an attempt to deter the dark fate predicted at his birth (''Pad'' indicates that he was initially named Himsaka ("the harmful one"), but that the name was later changed).
Ahimsaka was sent to Taxila to study under a well-known Brahmin guru. There he excelled in his studies and became the teacher's favourite student, enjoying special privileges in his teacher's house. However, the other students grew jealous of Ahimsaka's speedy progress and sought to turn his master against him. To that end, they made it seem as though Ahimsaka had seduced the master's wife and boasted that he was wiser than the guru. Unwilling or unable to attack Ahimsaka directly (''Pad'' states that Ahimsaka was as "strong as seven elephants", while ''Ps'' states that the teacher worried that his business would suffer if he was found to have murdered a student), the teacher said that Ahimsaka's training was complete, but that he must provide the traditional final gift offered to a guru before the teacher would grant his approval. As his payment, the teacher demanded 1,000 fingers, each taken from a different victim, thinking that Angulimala would be killed in the course of seeking this grisly prize (''Pad'' states that Angulimala was required to fetch 1,000 fingers from right hands, seemingly unaware that this could be achieved by killing 200 people. ''Ps'' states, even more strangely, that he was told to "kill a thousand legs", and gathered fingers only as an aid to keeping an accurate count).
Sources indicate that one of his motivations may have been the unquestioning obedience to the guru - an echo of the higher principles governing his earlier life.  But tradition reports that it was probably his innate disposition to violence.  In his previous life, he was a Yakkha - a man-eating spirit with superhuman strength.  The guru's instructions may have also aroused a strange attraction for killing, or could be seen as a challenge to his manly prowess.  It was reported that in all his past lives, two traits were prominent: his physical strength and his lack of compassion. It is also suggested that he was in fact cast out of his Guru's house, branding him an outcast among Brahmins. Being unable to find acceptance anywhere, he turned to brigandry, murdering pilgrims and traders passing through the wilderness, and collecting a finger each from their right hands.
As to the giving of goodbye gifts, this was customary in ancient India. We find an example in the Book of Pausya (Pausyaparvan, Mbh.1,3) of the Vedic epic Mahábháratha. Here the teacher sends his disciple Uttanka away after Uttanka has proven himself worthy of being trustworthy and in the possession of all the Vedic and Dharmashastric teachings. Uttanka says to his teacher: "What can I do for you that pleases you (kim te priyam karaváni), because thus it is said: Whoever answers without (being in agreement with) the Dharma, and whoever asks without (being in agreement with) the Dharma (the Law in the literal sense of the word), either occurs: one dies or one attracts animosity."
Friedrich Wilhelm (Prüfung und Initiation im Buche Pausya und in der Biographie des Náropa, Wiesbaden 1965, p. 11) maintains that similar phraseology already occurs in the "Book of Manu" (II,111) and in the "Institutes of Vishnu". I.e., taking leave of one's teacher and promising to do whatever this teacher asks of you brings, according to the Vedic teachings, enlightenment or similar attainment. It is therefore not unusual that Angulimála did his teacher's horrible bidding, although being a good and kind person at heart, in the knowledge that in the end he would reap the highest attainment.
Ahimsaka became a highwayman, killing travellers who passed through the forest. When the people of the kingdom began to avoid the roads, he entered the villages and dragged people from their homes. He never took clothes or jewels from his victims, only fingers. To keep count of the number of victims that he had taken, he strung them on a thread and hung them on a tree.  However, because birds began to eat the flesh from the fingers, he started to wear them around his neck as a garland. Thus he came to be known as ''Angulimala'' ("garland (or necklace) of fingers").
Villagers petitioned the king of Kosala, who vowed to hunt down Angulimala. Fearing for her son's life, Angulimala's mother set out to find him and warn him of the king's intent. The Buddha perceived with his "divine eye" (faculty of clairvoyance) that Angulimala had slain 999 victims, and was desperately seeking a thousandth. If the Buddha encountered Angulimala that day, he would become a monk and subsequently attain Nirvana. If Angulimala encountered his mother instead, he would slay her as his thousandth victim and fall into hell for millennia as a matricide.
The Buddha set off to intercept Angulimala, despite being warned by the people of the village in which he was staying. On the road through the forest of Kosala, Angulimala first saw his mother who came to warn him of the impending arrival of the kings' army. Angulimala, after some deliberation, decided to make her his 1000th victim. But then when Buddha also arrived, he chose to kill him instead. He drew his sword, and started running towards the Buddha. But although Angulimala was running as fast as he could, he couldn't catch up with the Buddha who was walking calmly. "The Blessed One willed a feat of psychic power such that Angulimala, though running with all his might, could not catch up with the Blessed One walking at normal pace" (MN 86, translation from Thanissaro Bhikkhu). This bewildered Angulimala so much that he called to the Buddha to stop. The Buddha said that he himself had already stopped, and that it was Angulimala who should stop. Angulimala asked for further explanation, after which the Buddha said that he had stopped of being what he is trying to be so called Nirvana.
Later, King Pasenadi (the king of Kosala) set out to find and kill Angulimala. He stopped first to pay a visit to the Buddha and his followers at the monastery where they dwelled. He explained to the Buddha his purpose, and the Buddha asked how the king would respond if he were to discover that Angulimala had given up the life of a highwayman and become a monk. The king said that he would salute him and offer to provide for him in his monastic vocation. The Buddha then revealed that Angulimala sat only a few feet away, his hair and beard shaven off, a member of the Buddhist order. The king, astounded, offered to donate robe materials to Angulimala, and then returned to his palace.
Later, Angulimala came across a young woman undergoing a difficult labor. He went to the Buddha and asked him what he could do to ease her pain. The Buddha told Angulimala to go to the woman and say:
'Sister, since I was born I do not recall intentionally killing a living being. Through this truth may there be wellbeing for you, wellbeing for your fetus.'
Angulimala pointed out that it would be untrue for him to say this.
The Buddha offered this revised stanza:
'Sister, since I was born with the noble birth (became a monk), I do not recall intentionally killing a living being. Through this truth may there be wellbeing for you, wellbeing for your fetus.'
The Buddha was making a word-play here on the word "born" to support Angulimala, who was suffering from severe remorse which was badly obstructing his meditation, of his renewed commitment to harmlessness since becoming a monk.
After Angulimala delivered this benediction, the woman safely gave birth to her child. This verse, commonly called the ''Angulimala paritta'', continues to be recited at the blessings of houses or pregnant women in Theravada countries.
This helped Angulimala focus his mind on his basic meditation subject.  Before, there would always appear in his mind's eye, the place in the jungle where he had slain so many people.  After performing the Act of Truth, he was seen to bring safety to people and people started to approach him and provide him with almsfood.
At last, his earlier name Ahimsaka fully befitted him.  Most of the people had gained full confidence in his inner transformation and there was no lack of support for him.
However a resentful few could not forget that he was responsible for the deaths of their loved ones.  Unable to win revenge through the law, they took matters into their own hands.  With sticks and stones, they attacked him as he walked for alms.
With a bleeding head, torn outer robe and a broken alms bowl, Angulimala managed to return to the monastery. The Buddha encouraged Angulimala to bear his torment with equanimity; he indicated that Angulimala was experiencing the fruits of the karma that would otherwise have condemned him to hell. This illustrates the Buddhist belief that while the effects of karma are inescapable, the form that they take and the schedule on which they occur can be modified by later actions-in this case, Angulimala experienced physical suffering during the course of his last life, rather than experiencing torment in another birth for a much longer period of time.
Being an arahant, Angulimala remained firm and invulnerable in mind and heart.  But his body, the symbol and fruit of previous kamma was still exposed to the effects of his former evil deeds. As an arahant, he needed no words of consolation, but a reminder of the kammic concatenation of cause and effect, which still has to be endured until the end.
When he entered Savatthi for alms, he was attacked by the mob, but on the admonition of the Buddha, endured their wrath as penance for his former misdeeds.
To the Theravada and Mahayana, Angulimala's story serves as an example that even the worst of people can undo the faults in their beings and return to the right path. The Theosophical viewpoint on this story is similar, and also includes that Karma must be repaid, but it is up to the individual as to how they react to their karma that will determine the change in their character. Even though Angulimala had repented and was enlightened, he still had to pay the karma of killing so many. He was peaceful and accepted what was done, and was therefore liberated from the Wheel of Rebirth.
Angulimala's story also illustrates the Buddhist belief that individuals can be reformed more readily through compassion than through punishment. As Angulimala says, "Some prisoners are tamed with punishment of a stick, or a hook or a whip. I was tamed without a stick or a weapon. I was tamed by the kind words of the Compassionate Buddha."
Richard F. Gombrich, in his paper ''Who was Angulimala?'', has postulated that the story of Angulimala may represent an encounter between the Buddha and a follower of an early form of Saivite or Shakti tantra. Gombrich reaches this conclusion on the basis of a number of inconsistencies in the sutta text that indicate possible corruption (particularly the failure of the verses in the Theragatha to conform to accepted Pali metrical schemes), and the fairly weak explanations for Angulimala's behaviour provided by the commentators. He notes that there are several other references in the early Pali canon that seem to indicate the presence of devotees of Siva, Kali, and other divinities associated with sanguinary tantric practices, and that Angulimala's behaviour would not be inconsistent with certain violent practices that were observed in India by Thuggee-like transgressive cults into recent times. However the fact that Thuggee itself was an army of ex-soldiers of the erstwhile Nizam of Hyderabad, who were Muslims, as documented by Sleeman ''et al.'', detracts from Gombrich's claim. If Gombrich's thesis could be conclusively proven, it would establish the Angulimala Sutta as likely being the earliest known documentation of tantric practices in South Asia, about which very little is known before the 7th century CE.
In 1985, the British-born Theravada monk Venerable Ajahn Khemadhammo Mahathera founded "Angulimala: the Buddhist Prison Chaplaincy in England". It has been recognized by the British government as the official representative of the Buddhist religion in all matters concerning the British prison system, and provides chaplains, counseling services, and instruction in Buddhism and meditation to prisoners throughout England, Wales, and Scotland.
In 2003, Thai director Suthep Tannirat attempted to release a film entitled ''Ongkhuliman'' (the Thai pronunciation of Angulimala) that re-told the story of the famous monk. Conservative Buddhist organizations in Thailand launched a protest, claiming that the movie distorted Buddhist teachings, and introduced Hindu and theistic influences not found in the source material. The Thai film censorship board rejected appeals to ban the film, but insisted that the director cut some violent material, and re-title the film to distance it further from its scriptural sources. Interestingly, what seemed to be most offensive to many was the fact that the director omitted commentarial information that depicted Angulimala as a hapless victim of the actions of others, and instead portrayed him (as the sutta does) as engaging in his violent behaviour of his own free choice.
In 2006, peace activist Satish Kumar retold the story of Angulimala in his short book, ''The Buddha and the Terrorist.'
*
*Gombrich, Richard F. ''How Buddhism Began: The Conditioned Genesis of the Early Teachings''. New Delhi, Munishiram Manoharlal Publishers (2002). ISBN 81-215-0812-6
*Bhikkhu Analayo (2008). The Conversion of Angulimala in the Sa?yukta-agama, Buddhist Studies Review 25 (2), 135-148
* Stede, W. (1957). Angulimala and Liberation, Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, Vol. 20 (1/3), 533-535
* G.P. Malalasekera, "", ''Dictionary of Pãli Proper Names''
*
*
* by Hellmuth Hecker
* by G.K. Ananda Kumarasiri (pdf file)
'''Amy Duggan "Sister" Archer-Gilligan''' (October 1873 was a Windsor, Connecticut, nursing home proprietor and serial killer. She murdered at least five people by poisoning them. One of her victims was her second husband, Michael Gilligan; the others were residents of her nursing home.
It is possible that she was involved in more deaths. The authorities found a total of 48 deaths in her nursing home, the "Archer Home for the Elderly and Infirm."
The case attracted wide publicity at the time and has been cited as an inspiration for the play ''Arsenic and Old Lace'' and for Frank Capra's later film of the same name.
Amy E. Duggan was born in October 1873 to James Duggan and Mary Kennedy in Milton, Connecticut, the eighth of ten children. 
Amy Duggan married James Archer in 1897. A daughter, Mary J. Archer, was born in December 1897. The Archers first became caretakers in 1901, hired to care for John Seymour, an elderly widower. They moved into his home in Newington, Connecticut. Seymour died in 1904. His heirs converted the residence into a boarding house for the elderly, and the Archers remained to provide care for the elderly for a fee. They paid rent to Seymour's family. They ran the boarding house as Sister Amy's Nursing Home for the Elderly.
In 1907, Seymour's heirs decided to sell the house. The Archers moved to Windsor, Connecticut, and used their savings to purchase their own residence on Prospect Street in Windsor Center. They soon converted it into a business, Archer Home for the Elderly and Infirm.
James Archer died in 1910, apparently of natural causes. The official cause of his death was Bright's disease, a generic term for kidney diseases. Amy Archer had taken out an insurance policy on him a few weeks before his death. The policy benefit enabled her to continue operating Archer Home.
In 1913, Amy married Michael W. Gilligan, a widower with four adult sons.''1900 US Census of Windsor, Connecticut'', sheet 8A; ''1910 US Census of Windsor, Connecticut'', p. 12. He was reportedly wealthy and interested in both Amy and in investing in the Archer Home. However, on February 20, 1914, after only three months married to Amy, Michael died.  The official cause of death was "acute bilious attack" (in other words, severe indigestion). Amy was once again financially secure because during their short marriage her new husband had drawn up a will which left his entire estate to her. The will would later be determined a forgery as it was apparently written in handwriting matching Amy Archer-Gilligan.
Between 1907 and 1917, there were 60 deaths in the Archer Home. Relatives of her clients grew suspicious as they tallied the large number of deaths. Only 12 residents died between 1907 and 1910, but 48 residents died between 1911 and 1916. Among them was Franklin R. Andrews, an apparently healthy man. On the morning of May 29, 1914, Andrews was doing some gardening in the Archer house. His health collapsed within a day and he was dead by evening. The official cause of death was gastric ulcer.
After Andrews' siblings (including Nellie Pierce) came into possession of some of his letters, they noted occasions where Amy Archer-Gilligan was pressing their brother for money. Amy's clients showed a pattern of dying not long after giving her a large sum of money.
As the deaths continued, Nellie Pierce reported her suspicions to the local district attorney, but he mostly ignored her, so she took her story to ''The Hartford Courant''. On May 9, 1916, the first of several articles on the "Murder Factory" was published. A few months later, the police started to seriously investigate the case. The investigation took almost a year to complete.
The bodies of Gilligan, Andrews, and three other boarders were exhumed. All five had died of poisoning, either arsenic or strychnine. Local merchants were able to testify that Amy had been purchasing large quantities of arsenic, supposedly to "kill rats". A look into Gilligan's will established that it was actually a forgery written by Amy.
According to M. William Phelps, author of ''The Devil's Rooming House'', investigation appeared to show that Amy was buying the arsenic to kill large numbers of rats. However, it appears that she did not buy all of the arsenic which killed her patients; the doctor and some of the patients had signed off to purchase it. The investigation pursued Dr. King because more evidence was piling up against him. But suspicions were focused back on Amy when someone suggested to clearly check all records of arsenic purchases.
When evidence was found of Amy sending her patients to the drugstore to buy quantities of arsenic, the police were able to arrest and convict her.
Archer-Gilligan was arrested and tried for murder, originally on five counts. Ultimately her lawyer managed to have the charges reduced to a single count, the murder of Franklin R. Andrews. On June 18, 1917, a jury found her guilty, and she was sentenced to death. 
Archer-Gilligan appealed and was granted a new trial in 1919. At this trial, she pleaded insanity. Mary Archer testified that her mother was addicted to morphine. Archer-Gilligan was again found guilty of murder and was sentenced to life imprisonment.
In 1924, Archer-Gilligan was declared to be temporarily insane and was transferred to the Connecticut Hospital for the Insane in Middletown, where she remained until her death on April 23, 1962.
* Crime in Connecticut
* List of serial killers in the United States
* 
* 
'''Beverley Gail Allitt''' (born 4 October 1968) is an English serial child killer who was convicted of murdering four children, attempting to murder three other children, and causing grievous bodily harm to a further six children.
Allitt was born on 4 October 1968 and grew up in the village of Corby Glen, near the town of Grantham. She had two sisters and a brother. Her father, Richard, worked in an off-licence, and her mother as a school cleaner. Allitt attended Charles Read Secondary Modern School, having failed the test to enter Kesteven and Grantham Girls' School. She would often volunteer for baby-sitting jobs and left school at the age of 16, taking a course in nursing at Grantham College.
*Liam Taylor (seven weeks old) - was admitted to the ward for a chest infection and was murdered on 21 February 1991.
*Timothy Hardwick (eleven years old) - a boy with cerebral palsy who was admitted to the ward after having an epileptic seizure. He was murdered on 5 March 1991.
*Kayley Desmond (then one year old) - admitted to the ward for a chest infection. Allitt attempted to murder her on 8 March 1991 but the child was resuscitated and transferred to another hospital, where she recovered.
*Paul Crampton (then five months old) - admitted to the ward for a chest infection on 20 March 1991. Allitt attempted to murder him with an insulin overdose on three occasions the day before he was transferred to another hospital, where he recovered.
*Bradley Gibson (then five years old) - admitted to the ward for pneumonia. He suffered two cardiac arrests on 21 March 1991, due to Allitt administering insulin overdoses, before he was transferred to another hospital, where he recovered.
*Yik Hung Chan (also known as Henry, then two years old) - admitted to the ward following a fall on 21 March 1991. He suffered an oxygen desaturation attack before he was transferred to another hospital, where he recovered.
*Becky Phillips (two months old) - admitted to the ward for gastroenteritis on 1 April 1991. She was administered an insulin overdose by Allitt and died at home two days later.
*Katie Phillips (then two months old) - Becky's twin was admitted to the ward as a precaution following the death of her sister. She had to be resuscitated twice after unexplained apnoeic episodes (which were later found to be caused by insulin and potassium overdoses). Following the second time that she stopped breathing, she was transferred to another hospital but, by this time, had suffered permanent brain damage, partial paralysis and partial blindness due to oxygen deprivation. Her parents had been so grateful for Allitt's care of Becky that they had asked her to be Katie's godmother. In 1999 Katie was awarded £2.125 million, by Lincolnshire Health Authority, to pay for treatment and equipment for the rest of her life. Lincolnshire Health Authority did not accept liability, but did acknowledge that Katie was entitled to compensation.
*Claire Peck (fifteen months old) - admitted to the ward following an asthma attack on 22 April 1991. After being put on a ventilator, she was left alone in Allitt's care for a short interval during which time she went into cardiac arrest. She was resuscitated but died after a second episode of cardiac arrest, again following a period when she was left alone with Allitt.
Allitt had attacked thirteen children, four fatally, over a 59-day period before she was brought up on charges for her crimes. It was only following the death of Claire Peck that medical staff became suspicious of the number of cardiac arrests on the children's ward and police were called in. It was found that Allitt was the only nurse on duty for all the attacks on the children and she also had access to the drugs.
Four of Allitt's victims had died. She was charged with 4 counts of murder, 11 counts of attempted murder and 11 counts of causing grievous bodily harm. Allitt entered pleas of not guilty to all charges.
Allitt's trial judge recommended she serve a minimum term of 30 years, meaning she would not be released until at least 2022 and the age of 54, and then only if she was no longer considered to be a danger to the public. This represented one of the longest sentences given to a woman in Britain, exceeded only by those given to Rose West and Moors murders#Myra Hindley|Myra Hindley.
Allitt's motives have never been fully explained. According to one theory, she showed symptoms of factitious disorder, also known as Münchausen syndrome or Münchausen syndrome by proxy. This controversial disorder is described as involving a pattern of abuse in which a perpetrator ascribes to, or physically falsifies illnesses in, someone under their care to attract attention to themselves.
In 1994 Manic Street Preachers mentioned Allit in the lyrics to the song Archives of Pain from their album The Holy Bible. 
In 2005 the BBC made a dramatisation of the story, ''Angel of Death'', in which Charlie Brooks played Allitt. at IMDb
In 2008, Allitt's story was depicted in an episode of the crime documentary, ''Crimes That Shook Great Britain''. at IMDb
Allitt was featured in an episode of ''Deadly Women'' entitled "Bad Medicine".
She was also investigated in the Channel 5 series of documentaries titled ''Born To Kill?'', featuring as one of the few on the series to really be considered by experts as 'born with a pre-disposition to kill' as a result of her suspected Munchausen syndrome by proxy. at IMDB
In 2011, she was featured in the series ''Evil Up Close 'The Ward Assassin''', 
In 2016, on the 25th anniversary of her crimes, she is slated to be featured on the series ''Nurses Who Kill'' for UKTV Really Channel.
*John Bodkin Adams
*Leonard Arthur
*Kristen Gilbert
*Maxim Petrov
*Michael Swango
*Dorothea Waddingham
'''Sara María Aldrete Villareal''' (born September 6, 1964) is a Mexican serial killer who headed a drug smuggling and human sacrifice cult along with Adolfo Constanzo. She was convicted of the murder of Mark Kilroy, an American student killed in Matamoros in 1989, along with several other killings.
Born in Matamoros, Tamaulipas, Mexico, tall and studied physical education, preparing to transfer to a university to earn a physical education teaching certification.
Adolfo Constanzo, a Cuban-American|Cuban American fortune-telling|fortune-teller and religious cult leader, introduced her to witchcraft and dark magic. He gave her the nickname "La Madrina", Spanish for "godmother", and initiated her into his cult, which was a conglomeration of Santería, Aztec warrior ritual, and Palo Mayombe, complete with blood sacrifices. Constanzo sexually assaulted and killed drug dealers and used their body parts for religious sacrifice ceremonies in an old warehouse near Matamoros. Many of his victims' body parts were cooked in a large pot called a ''nganga''. Constanzo made Sara Aldrete second-in-command of his cult, and directed her to supervise his followers while he was out shipping marijuana over the border into the US.
In 1989 the killings grew more frequent and gained attention when affluent American tourist Mark J. Kilroy, a University of Texas student on Spring Break, was abducted. Constanzo, Aldrete and the rest of the cult went on the run when detectives discovered their 'shrine'. They found human hair, brains, teeth and skulls at the site of the murders. Eventually, the police found their hideout in Mexico City on May 6, 1989. After a shootout, Constanzo and one of his accomplices were shot and killed by another member of the cult, apparently at Constanzo's behest. Aldrete was convicted of criminal association in 1990 and jailed for six years. In a second trial, she was convicted of several of the killings at the cult's headquarters, and sentenced to 30 years in prison. If Aldrete is ever released from prison, American authorities plan to prosecute her for the murder of Mark Kilroy.
*[//web.archive.org/web/20120813181647/http://www.trutv.com/library/crime/serial_killers/weird/constanzo/4.html Crime Library]
'''Felícitas Sánchez Aguillón''' or '''Sánchez Neyra''' (1890 – June 16, 1941) was a Mexican nurse, midwife, baby farmer and serial killer, active during the 1930s in Mexico City, who killed babies in her care. Between 40 and 50 murders were attributed to her. She was also known as ''"The Ogress of Colonia Roma"'', ''"The Female Ripper of Colonia Roma"'' and ''"The Human Crusher of little angels"''.
She was born in 1890 in Cerro Azul, Veracruz|Cerro Azul, Veracruz to a mother who was not affectionate towards her. As a child, she habitually poisoned street dogs.
During the 1900s, she became a licensed nurse and married Carlos Conde. She had twin daughters with him but didn't want to take care of them, and suggested to her husband that they give them up for adoption. He accepted this proposal, but after the daughters had been adopted, he changed his mind. However, Sánchez refused to tell him where their daughters were, which led to their divorce in 1910. In that year Sánchez moved to Mexico City.
In Mexico City, she lived in an apartment building located on Salamanca Street, Colonia Roma. She started to attend births and illegally practice abortions. She also began to trade in illegal adoptions. During the 1910s she was arrested twice for practicing illegal adoption and baby farming.
She killed the children that she couldn't sell and the newborns when the abortion failed. She murdered several children, some by poisoning or strangulation. She dismembered the bodies and incinerated them or threw them in the sewer.
On April 8, 1941, human remains were discovered near her building. Three days later Sánchez was arrested, along with two accomplices: her second husband Roberto or Alberto Covarrubías and a plumber, Salvador Martínez, who worked for Sánchez.
Sánchez committed suicide before she was tried on July 16, 1941. She and her second husband had a third daughter, who was placed in state care after her father was convicted for involvement in the murders.
'''Stephen Akinmurele''' was a suspected serial killer, of Nigerian descent, charged with murdering five elderly  people between 1995 and 1998. The case is noted for Akinmurele's long-standing hatred of elderly people. Akinmurele committed suicide before his trial though confessed to a number of the murders. Police believe he may have also been responsible for two further killings.
All of the victims in the case were elderly with the lead investigator in the case noting that Akinmurele had a "pathological hatred" of old people. He was dubbed "cul-de-sac killer" due to his choice of elderly victims living in quiet suburban streets. Akinmurele had a history of mental illness and had committed crimes against the elderly from the age of 11. He was drawn to situations in which he would encounter the elderly with the police asserting he got a "kick" out of killing old people.
Akinmurele killed himself in Manchester Prison in August 1999. In his suicide note Akinmurele admitted to the crimes, saying that he regretted them and feared he would kill again.http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Chilling+final+words+of+a+suspected+serial+killer.-a0109605231 He had also earlier admitted to three other killings of younger victims, though police believe the confession to be false and an attempt to mask the ageist motivation behind his crimes.
Eric Boardman, one of the victims, received a posthumous award for his bravery in defending himself and his wife from Akinmurele. Boardman's actions caused vital evidence to be left at the scene by Akinmurle, enabling the police to trace him through his fingerprints.
'''Mihai Antonescu''' (18 November 1904 - 1 June 1946) was a Romanian politician who served as Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister during World War II.
Born in Nucet, Dâmbovi?a|Nucet, Dâmbovi?a County, went to school in Pite?ti, and then at the Saint Sava National College in Bucharest. From 1922 to 1926 he attended the Faculty of Law of the University of Bucharest.  Antonescu made his living as an attorney before becoming Prime Minister Ion Antonescu's (to whom he was not related) Minister of Propaganda in 1940. Antonescu was initially not an extremist or supporter of the Iron Guard, whose leaders held prominent positions in Ion Antonescu's government in 1940-1941 (''see National Legionary State''); in the 1930s, he was a member of the National Liberal Party-Bratianu.
As minister, he drifted to the far right, and established contacts with the German Nazi Party. Antonescu subsequently became one of Ion Antonescu's most trusted advisors, especially when the Iron Guard's leader, Horia Sima (who was also deputy prime minister), became increasingly uncooperative. He was effective in censoring governmental critics and enforcing blatant Anti-Semitism in the media.
When the Iron Guard was suppressed and removed from power in January 1941 (''see Legionnaires' Rebellion and Bucharest Pogrom''), Mihai Antonescu was promoted to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, making him the second most powerful man in the country (''see Romania during World War II'').
Throughout 1941, especially after the Invasion of the Soviet Union, Ion Antonescu primarily focused on Romania's military affairs, leaving Mihai Antonescu in almost full control of the country's domestic matters. Although initially uncomfortable with Romania's close alliance with Germany, Antonescu strengthened the nation's ties with Adolf Hitler's regime after a string of early Axis victories against the Soviets. Antonescu primarily attempted to gain Germany's favor by persecuting Romania's Jews. Essentially running the interior ministry, he drafted a series of laws that resulted in thousands of Romania's Jews being forced out of their jobs and positions, while at the same time they were denied access to countless other careers. More such laws resulted in the country's Jews having their property seized.
Throughout 1941, Antonescu would approve the Ia?i pogrom|pogrom against the Jews of Ia?i, stop the emigration of Jews from Romania, and remove the Romanian government's protection of Romanian Jews outside the country, thus leaving them in German-occupied areas at the mercy of the Nazis. He also approved the slaughter of Jews in Bessarabia and Bukovina, and the deportation of the survivors to concentration camps in Transnistria.
As 1942 came to a close, Ion Antonescu became alarmed at the deterioration of the Axis war effort and started looking for ways to withdraw Romania from the war. He attempted to persuade Hitler to make peace with the Western Allies and focus the full power of the Axis forces on the Soviet Union. When the Soviets won the Battle of Stalingrad on 2 February 1943, Antonescu came to the conclusion that the war was lost for the Axis, proceeding to destroy files and documents that revealed his active persecution of Romania's Jews. With Ion Antonescu's approval, he came to advocate the withdrawal from conflict of all minor allies of the Nazis - Romania, Hungary, Italy, and Finland.
Antonescu believed Benito Mussolini was powerful enough to stand up to Hitler, and that Italy could successfully negotiate an armistice with the Western Allies. Under Antonescu's plan, the four states and other European nations would turn against Hitler and join the Allies against Germany. In his capacity as foreign minister, Antonescu strengthened Romania's ties with Italy and paid a visit to Mussolini in June 1943, at which time he discovered that Mussolini agreed with certain aspects of his plan but was less than enthusiastic in regard to actually implementing it. Antonescu subsequently increased his efforts to improve Romania's relations with the United States and Great Britain. As such, he stopped the deportations of Romania's Jews, allowed Jewish emigration to non-Axis nations, and repatriated those who had survived Transnistria.
On 23 August 1944, as Soviet forces drew closer and closer to Romania, King Michael dismissed the government of Ion Antonescu, declared the nation's surrender, and had Mihai Antonescu arrested. He was subsequently handed over to the new authorities, tried by a Communist Party-influenced Bucharest People's Tribunal, and found guilty of war crimes. He was executed by a firing squad, together with Ion Antonescu, Constantin Vasiliu and Gheorghe Alexianu, near the fort of Jilava.
*  (May be unsuitable for sensitive viewers)
'''Josef Altstötter''' (4 January 1892Verdict, Judge's trial, pages 1170 to 1177. Bad Griesbach (Rottal), Lower Bavaria - 13 November 1979, Nuremberg) was a high-ranking official in the German Ministry of Justice under the Nazi Regime.  Following World War II, he was tried by the Nuremberg Military Tribunal as a defendant in the Judges' Trial, where he was acquitted of the most serious charges, but was found guilty of a lesser charge of membership in a criminal organization (the SS).
After serving in World War I, Altstötter completed his law studies in Munich in 1920, passed the state jurisprudence examination and began work in 1921 as deputy judge in the Bavarian Justice Department. In 1927 he worked in the Reich Ministry of Justice.  In 1933, he moved to the Supreme Court for Leipzig and finally in 1936 into Reich Labour Court.
From 1939 to 1942 he was with the Wehrmacht. From January 1943 he was back in the Reich Ministry of Justice (Division VI:''Civil Law and Justice''), where he was appointed in May 1943 chief of the civil law and procedure division  ("Reichministerialdirektor"), and remained there throughout the Second World War.  He was awarded the Golden Party Badge for service to the Nazi party.
Part of Altstötter's department included the Nuremberg racial laws enacted to isolate Jews from German life and deprive them of civil rights. His office also had responsibility for revising the German inheritance and family law by, so that after death, the property of Jews would not go to their children, but by law would be forfeited to the German government.
Prior to its takeover by the Nazi party Altstötter was a member of the Stahlhelm, Bund der Frontsoldaten|Stahlhelm, a right-wing veterans association. When this has been restructured as a Nazi organization,  Altstötter became a member of the SA (SA-number: Member 31).  On 15 May 1937 Altstötter moved from SA to the SS (membership number 289,254) in 1944 and reached the rank of ''SS-Oberführer'' (senior colonel). 
In September 1938 he also joined the Nazi Party (membership number 5,823,836).   Josef Altstötter was friendly with high-level SS leaders with, among others, Heinrich Himmler, Ernst Kaltenbrunner and Gottlob Berger.
In 1947, Josef Altstötter  was one of the accused at the Nuremberg war crimes files.  The indictment accused him, and other Nazi judges and legal officials of the participation in war crime and crimes against humanity.  For Altstötter, the particular allegations against him were that he was criminally involved with both the Nazi racial laws and also with kidnapping and secret murder of people pursuant to the Nazi "Night and Fog Decree". However, there was only sufficient evidence to convict him of membership in the SS.  According to the Tribunal, Altstötter
In December 1947 he was sentenced to five years in prison.  After 2 ½ years, in 1950,  Altstötter was released from Landsberg Prison.   From 1950 to 1966, he worked as a lawyer.  In 1979, at the age of 87 years he died in Nuremberg.
*German Cross in Gold on 25 March 1942 as ''Major d.B.'' in the II./Infanterie-Regiment 475Patzwall & Scherzer 2001, p. 14.
*Judges' Trial
* Ernst Klee: ''Das Personenlexikon zum Dritten Reich: Wer war was vor und nach 1945.'' Fischer-Taschenbuch-Verlag, Frankfurt am Main 2007, ISBN 978-3-596-16048-8.
* 
* Hermann Weiß (Historiker)|Hermann Weiß (Hrsg.): ''Biographisches Lexikon zum Dritten Reich'', Fischer-Verlag, Frankfurt am Main, 1998, ISBN 3-10-091052-4
*  from the Mazal Library.
__NOTOC__
|unit=
|battles=
|awards=Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves
|laterwork=
}}
'''Maximilian de Angelis''' (2 October 1889 - 6 December 1974) was a general in the Wehrmacht of Nazi Germany during World War II. He was a recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves.
On 4 April 1946 Angelis was extradited to Yugoslavia and sentenced to 20 years for war crimes. He was then extradited to the Soviet Union and sentenced to two times 25 years. He was released in 1955 and repatriated to Germany.
* Iron Cross (1939) 2nd Class (13 May 1940) & 1st Class (1 June 1940)Thomas 1997, p. 5.
* Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves
** Knight's Cross on 9 February 1942 as ''Generalleutnant'' and commander of the 76. Infanterie-Division
** 323rd Oak Leaves on 12 November 1943 as ''General der Artillerie'' and commanding general of the XXXXIV. Armeekorps
* 
* 
'''Abul Kalam Azad''', (born 5 March 1947) is a former Bangladeshi politician of the Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami|Jamaat-e-Islami, televangelist and convicted war criminal of the Bangladesh liberation war.
He was the first of nine prominent Jamaat-e-Islami members accused of war crimes by the International Crimes Tribunal (Bangladesh)|International Crimes Tribunal-2 of Bangladesh to be convicted for crimes against humanity, including murder and rape.
Abul Kalam Azad was born on 5 March 1947 to an impoverished farmer, Abdus Salam Mia and his wife of Barakhardia village, under Saltha Police Station of Faridpur District. After attending a qawmi madrasa, he was a student at Rajendra College in Faridpur.
In the 1980s Azad became a regular speaker at a major mosque in Dhaka. He also led an Islamic charity.
In 1999, he founded the MACCA, a social charity. Reflecting on its activities he said "We strongly believe that religion and development should work together to help people. We believe development work is only sustainable through religion; otherwise sustainable development is impossible." As part of his social activism, he involved MACCA in an awareness campaign against AIDS.
He anchored a TV show called ''Apnar Jiggasa (????? ????????)'', or ''Your Questions'' on a private TV channel in Bangladesh for several years before the trial.
The investigations alleged that during the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, he, then known as "Bachchu", aged 24, was a close associate of Ali Ahsan Mohammad Mojaheed, then president of the East Pakistan ''Islami Chhatra Sangha'', the student wing of the Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami|Jamaat-e-Islami. The prosecution alleges that before the formation of the Razakar paramilitary force, Azad actively aided the Pakistani army in committing criminal acts.
The prosecution alleged that Azad had assisted the Pakistani military as the chief of the Al-Badr (East Pakistan)|Al-Badr force in Faridpur; the members of the force were young men mostly drawn from colleges. He could speak Urdu well because he had studied in a madrasa. As a close associate of the Pakistani army, he participated in committing atrocities on civilians, including the Hindu community and pro-liberation Bengali people. His defence counsel calls these allegations "false."
=
In 2010 the Bangladesh government established the International Crimes Tribunal under a 1973 act of Parliament. It has indicted nine suspects who are prominent Jamaat-e-Islami leaders, and two who are Bangladesh National Party leaders. The government was responding to popular support to have the trials and settle longstanding accusations dating to the liberation war of 1971.
The trial was held ''in absentia'' because Azad went into hiding hours before Tribunal-2 issued an arrest warrant against him on 3 April 2012.
Azad was indicted on eight counts for murder, rape and genocide. Investigators alleged that they had identified 14 people murdered by Bachchu: three were women he had raped and nine were other abducted civilians. Testimony was offered by 22 prosecution witnesses, including friends and families of the victims. The prosecution said that Bachchu had burnt down at least five houses, looted 15, and forced at least nine Hindus to convert to Islam.
On January 2013, his trial was the first to be completed; he was convicted of war crimes, on six of eight counts, including murder of unarmed civilians and rape committed during the War. On 21 January 2013 Azad was sentenced to the death penalty.
Abul Kalam Azad is currently believed to have fled to India or Pakistan. MACCA, the organisation founded by him, has disavowed him.
}}
'''Ghulam Azam''' (
On 15 July 2013, a Bangladeshi special tribunal (the International Crimes Tribunal) found Azam guilty of war crimes such as conspiring, planning, incitement to and complicity in committing genocide, and gave him a 90-year prison sentence. The tribunal stated that Azam deserved capital punishment for his activity during Liberation war of Bangladesh but was given a lenient punishment of imprisonment because of his age and health condition.
As a leader of the Jamaat-e-Islami, he led the formation of the Shanti Committees which were formed at the time of the Liberation War alongside other pro-Pakistan Bengali leaders. Azam was accused of forming paramilitary groups for the Pakistani Army, including Razakars, and Al-Badr (East Pakistan)|Al-Badr. These militias opposed the Mukti Bahini members who fought for the independence of Bangladesh, and also stand accused of war crimes.
Azam's citizenship of Bangladesh had been cancelled by the Bangladeshi Government because of his role during the Bangladesh Liberation War. He lived in Bangladesh illegally without any authorised Bangladeshi visa from 1978 to 1994, when the Bangladesh Supreme Court reinstated his citizenship.
Azam was arrested on 11 January 2012 on the charges of committing war crimes during the Bangladesh Liberation War by the International Crimes Tribunal in Bangladesh.
He died of a stroke on Deaths in 2014#23|23 October 2014 at BSMMU at the age of 91.
Azam was born on 7 November 1922 in the then Bengal province of British India, the eldest son of Maulana Ghulam Kabir and Sayeda Ashrafunnisa. He attended a madrasa in his village of Birgaon, Nabinagar, Brahmanbaria in Comilla and completed his secondary school education in Dhaka. He then joined Dhaka University, completing BA and MA degrees in political science.I. Hossain, N. Siddiquee, 'Islam in Bangladesh Politics: the role of Ghulam Azam of Jamaat-i-Islaami', Inter-Asia Cultural Studies, Vol 5, 2004, p. 385
While studying at the University of Dhaka Azam became active in student politics and was elected as the General Secretary of the Dhaka University Central Students' Union (DUCSU) for two consecutive years between 1947 and 1949. While General Secretary of the DUCSU Azam in 1947 submitted a memorandum on the union's behalf to the then Prime Minister of Pakistan Liaquat Ali Khan, demanding that Bengali be made a state language along with Urdu. Later in 1970 in a newspaper article Azam said "Bangla was a wrong decision with regard to the establishment of Pakistan since Urdu was widely used and all Muslims of the Indian subcontinent understand it."
In 1950, Azam left Dhaka to teach political science at the Government Carmichael College in Rangpur. During this time, he became influenced by the writings of Abul Ala Maududi and he joined Maududi's party Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan|Jamaat-e-Islami in 1954, and was later elected as the Secretary General of Jamaat-e-Islami's East Pakistan branch.
In 1964, the government of Ayub Khan banned Jamaat-e-Islami and its leaders, including Azam, was imprisoned for eight months without trial. He played a prominent role as the general secretary of the Pakistan Democratic Movement formed in 1967 and later as a member of Democratic Action Committee formed in 1969 to transform the anti-Ayub movement into a
popular uprising. In 1969, he became the Ameer of the Jamaat in East Pakistan. He and other opposition leaders including future President of Bangladesh Sheikh Mujibur Rahman took part in the Round Table Conference held in Rawalpindi in 1969 to solve the prevailing political impasse in Pakistan. On 13 March 1969, Khan announced his acceptance of their two fundamental demands of parliamentary government and direct elections.Keesing's Record of World Events (formerly Keesing's Contemporary Archives), Volume 15 (1969), May 1969 PAKISTAN, Page 23353
In the runup to the Pakistani general election, 1970|1970 general election, Azam together with leaders of a number of other parties in East Pakistan (including the Pakistan Democratic Party, National Awami Party, Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam and the Pakistan National League) protested at the Awami League approach to electioneering for, accusing them of breaking up public meetings, physical attacks on political opponents and the looting and destruction of party offices.'White Paper on The Crisis in East Pakistan', Government of Pakistan, Islamadab, 5 August 1971 During 1970, while Azam was the head of Jamaat-e-Islami East Pakistan, a number of political rallies, including rallies of Jamaat-e-Islami, were attacked by armed mobs alleged to be incited by the Awami League.'White Paper on The Crisis in East Pakistan', Government of Pakistan, Islamadab, 5 August 1971, pg. 6-8'Police accused over rioting', The Guardian, 26 January 1970, pg. 4
During the Bangladesh Liberation War, Azam took a political stance in support of unified Pakistan,
During the war of 1971, it is alleged that Azam played a central role in the formation of Peace Committees on 11 April 1971, which declared the independence movement to be a conspiracy hatched by India.?????? ?????? ?????? ????? ???? (Citizen's Peace Committee formed in Dhaka), Daily Pakistan, 11 April 1971.
During the war Azam travelled to the then West Pakistan to consult the Pakistani leaders. Azam took part in meetings with General Yahiya Khan, the military dictator of Pakistan, and other military leaders, to organise the campaign against Bangladeshi independence.
On 12 August 1971, Azam declared in a statement published in the ''Daily Sangram'' that "the supporters of the so-called Bangladesh Movement are the enemies of Islam, Pakistan, and Muslims".
Azam is also alleged to be the chief protagonist and to present the blueprint of the killing of the intellectuals in a meeting with Rao Forman Ali in Early September 1971. In accordance with this blue print, the largest number of Bengali intellectuals assassinations performed by Pakistani Army and the local collaborators, on 14 December 1971.
On 20 June 1971, Azam declared in Lahore that the Hindu minority in East Pakistan, under the leadership of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, are conspiring to secede from Pakistan.?????? ???????? ???????? ??????? ????? ??? (Prof. Ghulam Azam in a conference at Lahore), Daily Sangram, 21 June 1971. On 12 August 1971, Azam declared in a statement published in the ''Daily Sangram'' that "the supporters of the so-called Bangladesh Movement are the enemies of Islam, Pakistan, and Muslims".??????? ??????? ?????? ?????????? ????? ???? ???? ?????? - ????? ???, Daily Sangram, 12 August 1971. For his part, Azam denies all such accusation and challenges that proof be brought forward to justify them., See video at 2:15 and 3:42. However, he later admitted that he was on the list of collaborators of the Pakistani army, but denied he was a war criminal.
The military junta of Yahya Khan decided to call an election in an attempt to legitimise themselves. On 12 October 1971, Yahya Khan declared that an election will be held from 25 November to 9 December. Azam decided to take part in this election. On 15 October, the Pakistani government suddenly declared that 15 candidates were elected without any competition. According to the declaration of 2 November as many as 53 candidates were elected without any competition.''Muldhara '71'' (??????? '?? Mainstream '71) by Moidul Hasan, page. 128, footnote. 177. published by University Press Limited In this election Jamaat won 14 of the uncontested seats.''International Herald Tribune''; 4 November 1971
Former caretaker government adviser, human rights activist and witness for the prosecution Sultana Kamal said- "In brutality, Ghulam Azam is synonymous with German ruler Hitler who had influential role in implementation and execution of genocide and ethnic cleansing". Prosecutor of ICT Zead-Al-Malum said- "He was the one making all the decisions, why would he need to be on any committee? Being Hitler was enough for Hitler in World War II."
* "Jamaat-e-Islami guru Ghulam Azam's role during the Liberation War 'was quite like Adolf Hitler in Second World War Germany'."
* "Next on the list is Ghulam Azam, the head of Jamaat in 1971, accused of overseeing the setting up of pro-Pakistani death squads manned by the party's student wing. The prosecution is seeking the death penalty for Mr Azam, whom it likened, in its closing arguments this week, to Adolf Hitler."
* "War crimes prosecutors on Sunday said that in 1971 Ghulam Azam did in Bangladesh what Adolf Hitler did in Germany during the Second World War. 'Ghulam Azam was the Hitler in Bangladesh under Pakistan army occupation in 1971', said prosecutor Zead-Al-Malum. "
Government of newly independent Bangladesh, banned Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami|Jamaat-e-Islami and cancelled Azam's citizenship due to his alleged role during the Bangladesh Liberation War. Azam lived in exile in London until he was allowed to return home in 1978.
Jamaat's rehabilitation began when Ziaur Rahman became president after a coup in 1975 and lifted the previous ban on religious parties. In 1977, Zia removed secularism in the constitution, replacing it with Islamic ideals, further clearing the way for Jamaat-e-Islami to return to political participation. In 1978 Azam returned to Bangladesh on a temporary visa with a Pakistani passport and stayed as a Pakistani national after his visa expired, refusing to leave a country he considered his home by birth-right.
In the 1980s, Azam was particularly critical of the military rule of General Ershad after he seized power in a bloodless coup in 1982 and Jamaat-e-Islami took part in demonstrations and strikes as well as other opposition parties such as the Awami League and the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP). He proposed a caretaker government system to facilitate free and fair elections, which was adopted in 1990. In the Bangladeshi general election, 1991, Jamaat-e-Islami won 18 seats and its support allowed the BNP to form a government.
During this time, he acted unofficially as the Ameer of Jamaat-e-Islami until 1991, when he was officially elected to the post. This led to the government arresting him and an unofficial court called The People's Court was established by civilians such as Jahanara Imam to try alleged war criminals and anti-independence activists. Imam held a symbolic trial of Azam where thousands of people gathered and gave the verdict that Azam's offences committed during the Liberation War deserve capital punishment. In 1994, he fought a lengthy legal battle which resulted in the Supreme Court of Bangladesh ruling in his favour and restoring his nationality.
In the Bangladeshi general election, June 1996|1996 election, Jamaat won only three seats, and most of their candidates lost their deposits. Azam announced his retirement from active politics in late 2000. He was succeeded by Motiur Rahman Nizami.
On 11 January 2012, Azam was arrested on charges of committing crimes against humanity and peace, genocide and war crimes in 1971 by the International Crimes Tribunal. His petition for bail was rejected by the ICT, and he was sent to Dhaka Central Jail. However, after three hours he was sent to Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University (BSMMU) hospital for a medical check-up due to his old age.
According to ''The Daily Star'', Azam was allowed to remain in a hospital prison cell despite being declared fit for trial by a medical team on 15 January.
Azam's health has deteriorated rapidly since being imprisoned.
Azam's wife complains about him being denied proper family visits and access to books, saying that this amounted to "mental torture". Azam is held in solitary confinement and is allowed a visit of 30 minutes per week by 3 close relatives only. Applications for visits are required to be made in advance and require approval. ''The Daily Star'' reported that Azam's wife and his counsels were allowed to meet him on 18 February.
On 25 February 2012, ''The Daily Star'' reported that Azam's nephew was denied a visit at the last minute just as he was about to enter the hospital prison room. This is despite the application for the visit being initially approved.
Islamic activists from different countries expressed their concern for Mr. Azam. The International Union of Muslim Scholars, chaired by Yusuf al-Qaradawi called the arrest "disgraceful", and called on the Bangladesh government to release him immediately, stating that "the charge of Professor Ghulam Azam and his fellow scholars and Islamic activists of committing war crimes more than forty years ago is irrational and cannot be accepted".
The judicial process under which Azam is on trial has been criticised by international organisations such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International.
So far, the ICT has sentenced two of the accused to death and has given a life sentence to another.
Azam was convicted of war crimes during the Bangladesh Liberation War by the International Crimes Tribunal-1 of Bangladesh. The charges against Azam were conspiring, planning, incitement to and complicity in committing genocide, crimes against humanity, and other war crimes and torture and killing of a police officer Shiru Mia and three other civilians. He was found guilty on all five charges and sentenced to 90 years in prison. The judges unanimously agreed that Azam deserved capital punishment but was given a lenient punishment because of his age and health condition.
In a press release, Jamaat Acting Secretary General Rafiqul Islam said the International Crimes Tribunal's verdict against Azam was nothing but a reflection of what AL-led 14-party alliance leaders had said against him [Ghulam Azam] in different meetings.
Ghulam Azam died of a stroke on 23 October 2014 at 10:10 pm at Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University (BSMMU) while serving jail sentences for crimes against humanity during Bangladesh Liberation War. His death was reported by Abdul Majid Bhuiyan, director of BSMMU. Ghulam was kept on life support since 8 pm of that day.
Azam was buried at their family graveyard at Moghbazar, Dhaka on 25 October.
His Salat al-Janazah|namaz-e-janaza was held at Bangladesh's national mosque Baitul Mokarram. The funeral was attended by hundreds of thousands of mourners.
* Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan
* Razakars (Pakistan)
'''Mir Quasem Ali''' (31 December 1952 - 3 September 2016) was a Bangladeshi businessman, philanthropist and politician. He was a former director of Islami Bank, and chairman of the Diganta Media Corporation, which owns Diganta TV.
Mir Quasem Ali is born to Mir Tayeb Ali and Rabeya Begum. He was born in Munsidangi Sutalori in Manikganj on 31 December 1952. He joined the Islami Chhatra Sangha in 1967 while studying in Chittagong Collegiate School.
Mir Quasem Ali was a former director of Islami Bank, and chairman of the Diganta Media Corporation, which owns Diganta TV. He founded the Ibn Sina Trust and was a key figure in the establishment of the NGO Rabita al-Alam al-Islami. He was the chairman of Keari Ltd, Association of Multipurpose Welfare Agencies of Bangladesh and Agro Industrial Trust, director of marketing of Ibn Sina Pharmaceutical Industries, member secretary of Fouad Al-Khateeb Charity Foundation. He was part of management in Industrialists and Businessmen Welfare Foundation, Allama Iqbal Sangsad, Islamic University of Chittagong, Darul Ihsan University, Centre for Strategy and Peace Studies.
Mir Quasem was a first-year student of Chittagong College in 1971, where he was pursuing a bachelor's degree in physics. He was the president of Chittagong Chhatra Sangha's unit. He was elected a to the Pakistan Islami Chhatra Sangha's provincial working council on 6 November. He was also general secretary of East Pakistan Islami Chhatra Sangha. Al-Badr was a paramilitary force composed of Jamaat e Islami's then student wing Islami Chhatra Sangha to support Pakistan army and crackdown on pro liberation groups.
After independence Quasem fled to Saudi Arabia.  He returned to Bangladesh and became the founding president of Islami Chhatra Shibir, the Jamaat's student front, on 6 February 1977. The organisation is a successor to the Islami Chhatra Sangha.
Out of the 14 charges, Quasem was convicted in 10 charges in the trial at International Crimes Tribunal and he was awarded death sentence for two of the charges including murder and kidnapping.
After the announcement of the verdict of the trial the lawyers from the defense said that justice had not been done on Quasem and he did not get proper judgment. and Ali refused to seek clemency.
Some critics of the current Bangladeshi Government said that Sheikh Hasina, the prime minister of the country used the trials to target her political enemies.
In 2016, Human Rights Watch reported that Mir Quasem Ali's trial was flawed. It demanded a moratorium on the death penalty, after details emerged that the prosecution had for producing insufficient evidence in court. Brad Adams of HRW stated: "Allowing the death sentence in a case with such fundamental doubts about the evidence is unthinkable."
Amnesty International raised serious concerns about the court proceedings. These include denying defence lawyers adequate time to prepare their cases, and arbitrarily limiting the number of witnesses they could call on. It urged the Bangladeshi government to annul the death sentence against Mir Quasem Ali and grant him a retrial, noting how the proceedings had reportedly been marred" by irregularities. Amnesty spokeswoman Champa Patel said: The people of Bangladesh deserve justice for crimes committed during the War of Independence. The continued use of the death penalty will not achieve this. It only serves to inflame domestic tensions and further divide a society riven by violence.
Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International also alleged that Mir Quasem Ali's son, Ahmed Bin Quasem, was arrested on 9 August 2016 and has been forcibly disappeared. Amnesty says multiple credible sources place him at Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) headquarters in Dhaka on 12 August, but authorities have denied having him in custody.
Mir Quasem Ali was hanged at Kashimpur prison in Gazipur on 3 September 2016.
There were reports of street celebrations held in Dhaka and Chittagong after the news of Ali's execution was broadcast live on television.
|awards=
|family=
|laterwork=Minister of War, Minister of Education
}}
Baron  was a general in the Imperial Japanese Army before and during World War II. As one of the principal nationalist right-wing political theorists in the Empire of Japan, he was regarded as the leader of the radical faction within the politicized Imperial Japanese Army and served as Minister of War under Prime Minister Inukai. He later served as Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (Japan)|Minister of Education during the Konoe and Hiranuma administrations. After World War II, he was convicted of war crimes and given a life sentence.
Araki was born in Komae, Tokyo; his father was an ex-samurai retainer of the Gosankyo|Hitotsubashi branch of the Tokugawa family. Araki graduated from the Imperial Japanese Army Academy in November 1897, and was commissioned as a second lieutenant in June of the following year.
Promoted to lieutenant in November 1900 and promoted to captain in June 1904, Araki served as company commander of the 1st Imperial Regiment during the Russo-Japanese War.
After the war, Araki returned to graduate from the Army Staff College at the head of his class. He served on the Imperial Japanese Army General Staff in April 1908, and served as a language officer stationed in Russia from November 1909 to May 1913, when he was made military attaché to Saint Petersburg during World War I. He was promoted to major in November 1909 and to lieutenant colonel in August 1915 and was assigned to the Kwantung Army.
Promoted colonel on July 24, 1918, Araki served as a Staff Officer at Expeditionary Army Headquarters in Vladivostok between 1918-19 during the Japanese Siberian Intervention against the Bolshevik Red Army, and was commander of the IJA 23rd Infantry Regiment. During this period in Siberia, Araki carried out secret missions in the Russian Far East and Lake Baikal areas.
Promoted to major general on March 17, 1923, Araki was made commander of the IJA 8th Infantry Brigade. He served as Provost Marshal General from January 1924 until May 1925; whereupon he rejoined the Army General Staff as a Bureau Chief. Araki was promoted to lieutenant general in July 1927 and then became Commandant of the Army War College in August of the next year.
Araki served as commander of the IJA 6th Division 1929-1931, when he was appointed Deputy Inspector General of Military Training, one of the most prestigious posts within the Army. He was promoted to the rank of full general in October 1933.Ammenthorp. The Generals of World War II
On 31 December 1931, Araki was appointed Minister of War
in the cabinet of Prime Minister Tsuyoshi Inukai. 
But in 1932, in the May 15 Incident. Inukai was assassinated by ultra-nationalist navy officers for resisting the Army's war demands. War Minister Araki supported the assassins, calling them "irrepressible patriots".''Japan at War'', Time-Life, 1980, p. 18 He also supported General Shiro Ishii and his biological warfare research project, Unit 731.
Prince Saionji, one of the Emperor's closest and strongest advisors, attempted to stop the military take-over of the government. In a compromise, a naval officer, Admiral Saito Makoto|Makoto Saito, became Prime Minister on 26 May. Araki remained as War Minister and made further demands on the new government. Later that month,  Japan unveiled its new foreign policy, the Statism in Showa Japan|Amau doctrine (compared to the Monroe Doctrine); this new policy became a blueprint for Japanese expansionism in Asia.
From September 1932 onwards, Araki became more outspoken in promoting totalitarianism, militarism, and expansionism. In a September 23 news conference Araki first mentioned the philosophy of ''Kodoha'' ("The Imperial Way"), which linked the Emperor, the people, land, and morality as one indivisible entity, and which emphasized State Shintoism. Araki also strongly promoted ''Seishin Kyoiku'' (spiritual training) for the army.
Araki became a member of the Supreme War Council. But on 23 January 1934, he resigned as War Minister due to ill health.  He was ennobled with the title of baron (''danshaku'') in 1935 under the ''kazoku'' peerage system.  Then ''Kodoha''-affiliated officers launched another rebellion in the 1936 February 26 Incident. The rebellion failed; this time the rebel leaders were executed, and ''Kodoha'' generals were purged from the Army, including Araki. He was forced to retire in March 1936.
Fumimaro Konoe became Prime Minister in 1937. In 1938, Konoe appointed Araki as Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (Japan)|Education Minister, to offset the influence of the ''Toseiha''. This placed him in an ideal position to promote militarism ideals through the national education system and in the general populace. Araki proposed the incorporation of the ''samurai'' code in the national education system. He promoted the use of the official academic text ''Kokutai no Hongi'' ("Japan's Fundamentals of National Policy"), and the "moral national bible" ''Shinmin no Michi'' ("The Path of Subjects"), an effective catechism on national, religious, cultural, social, and ideological topics. Araki continued to serve as Education Minister when Konoe was succeeded as Prime Minister by Kiichiro Hiranuma. Afterwards, he continued to serve as an advisor to the government as a State Councillor.
In 1924, Araki founded the ''Kokuhonsha'' (Society for the Foundation of the State), a secret society containing some of the most powerful generals, admirals and civilians dedicated to his Statism in Showa Japan|Statist (and in practical terms fascist) philosophy mixing totalitarianism, militarism, expansionism, and loyalty to the emperor. Araki was also theoretician of the even more radical ''Sakurakai'' (Cherry Blossom Society) which actively attempted to bring about a 'Showa Reformation' through coups d'état.
As a colonel, Araki was the principal proponent of the ''Kodaha'' political faction (Imperial Benevolent Rule or Action Group) within the Japanese Army, together with Jinzaburo Mazaki, Heisuke Yanagawa and Hideyoshi Obata. Their opposition was the ''Toseiha'' (Control Group) led by General Kazushige Ugaki. The ''Kodaha'' represented the radical and ultranationalist elements within the army; the ''Toseiha'' attempted to represent the more conservative moderates. These groups had a common intellectual origin in the Double Leaf Society, a 1920s military thinking group, supporting ''samurai'' ideals.
The groups were later to merge into the Imperial Way Faction (''Kodoha'') and incorporated a mixture of right-wing and national socialist ideas, particularly those of Kita Ikki and the pro-fascist philosophies of Nakano Seigo, of which Araki was a leading member.
In January 1939, Araki became involved in the National Spiritual Mobilization Movement and revitalized it by having it sponsor public rallies, radio programs, printed propaganda and discussion seminars at ''tonarigumi'' neighborhood associations.
Within the Army, Araki was a solid supporter of the "Northern Expansion Doctrine" ''Hokushin-ron'', which proposed attack on the Soviet Far East and Siberia.
An essential first step in the ''Hokushin-ron'' proposal was for Japan to seize control of Manchuria. Araki was a supporter of the unauthorized studies of China and the preparation of war scenarios by radical junior officer cliques within the Army. Through his connections with the ''Sakurakai'', Araki intensified efforts to take the government away from civilian control and isolate the Emperor (Showa Restoration|Showa Reformation), and to unite the many secret societies, as well as to put a close confidant, Shigeru Honjo, in as commander of the Kwantung Army.
Image:Sadao Araki on Time cover 1933.jpg|left|200px|Time Magazine January 23, 1933
The Kwantung Army had 12,000 men available for the invasion of Manchuria at the time of the Mukden Incident, but needed reinforcements. Araki arranged that another protégé, Chosen Army of Japan|Chosen Army commander Senjuro Hayashi was briefed to move his forces from Korea north into Manchuria without permission from Tokyo in support of the Kwantung Army.
The plot to seize Manchuria proceeded as planned, and when presented by the ''fait accompli'', all Prime Minister Reijiro Wakatsuki could do was weakly protest and resign with his cabinet. When the new cabinet was formed, Araki, as War Minister, was the real power in Japan.
After World War II, Araki was arrested by the American Occupation authorities and brought before the International Military Tribunal for the Far East, where he was tried for Class A war crimes. He was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for conspiracy to wage aggressive war, but was subsequently released from Sugamo Prison in 1955 for health reasons.Maga, ''Judgment at Tokyo: The Japanese War Crimes Trials'' Like other Japanese peers, he was stripped of his hereditary peerage in 1947 upon the abolition of the ''Kazoku''.
Araki died in 1966, and his grave is at Tama Cemetery, in Fuchu, Tokyo|Fuchu in Tokyo.
*
*
*
*
*
*
|-
'''Fikret Abdic''' (born 29 September 1939) is a Bosnian politician and businessman who first rose to prominence in the 1980s for his role in turning the Velika Kladuša-based agriculture company Agrokomerc into one of the biggest conglomerates in SFR Yugoslavia. 
In the early 1990s, during the Bosnian War, Abdic declared his opposition to the official Bosnian government, and established the Autonomous Province of Western Bosnia, a small and short-lived province in the northwestern corner of Bosnia and Herzegovina composed of the town of Velika Kladuša and nearby villages.
The mini-state existed between 1993 and 1995 and was allied with the Army of Republika Srpska. which was later reduced on appeal to 15 years by the Supreme Court of Croatia. 
On 9 March 2012, he was released after having served two thirds of his reduced sentence.
Fikret Abdic was born in the village of Donja Vidovska, Velika Kladuša, Kingdom of Yugoslavia on 29 September 1939.
Before the war, Abdic was the director of Agrokomerc, a company based in Velika Kladuša that he raised from a small agricultural cooperative into a modern food combine which employed over 13,000 workers, and which boosted the economy of the entire area. Agrokomerc transformed Velika Kladuša from a poverty-struck region to a regional powerhouse. Local residents of Velika Kladuša reportedly called him ''Babo'' (''Daddy'').
In the late 1987, just before the death of Hamdija Pozderac, Raif Dizdarevic was about to take over the annual Presidency of Yugoslavia, during which a scandal arose. Abdic found himself imprisoned for alleged financial improprieties, and Hamdija Pozderac resigned. The scandal shook not only the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the whole of Yugoslavia. Another of his controversial moves was erecting a monument to an Ottoman Bosnian ''basbölükbasi'', Mujo Hrnjica, on a hill above Velika Kladuša.
After his release from prison, he made a last-moment decision to join the Party of Democratic Action and ran for the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 1990 elections. 
He and his future rival Alija Izetbegovic ran for the two Bosniak positions, and were both elected. Once the positions were filled, the members of the presidency elected a President of the Presidency who acted as its head. Abdic won more popular votes than Izetbegovic but did not assume office for reasons which remain unclear.
According to ''NIN'', when the Bosnian War broke out, Abdic briefly appeared in Sarajevo hoping to assume the presidency after Izetbegovic had been arrested by the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA). However, he was preempted as Izetbegovic had already named Ejup Ganic for that position.
A few months later, Abdic decided to return to Bihac. Popular locally, having ties to both Belgrade and Zagreb, Abdic was concerned with business interests in his fiefdom,''War in the Balkans, 1991-2002'' by R. Craig Nation. p. 168 and opposed Izetbegovic's government He established the Autonomous Province of Western Bosnia (APZB), a move which the government characterised as treason. He made peace deals with Croat (14 September 1993) and Serb leaders (22 October 1993) who were pleased to weaken the Bosnian government in the light of Karadordevo agreement|the Karadordevo and Graz agreements which aimed to partition Bosnia and Herzegovina between Croatia and Serbia. 
Abdic established prison camps for those who fought for the Bosnian government. Detainees at the camps were subjected to killings, torture, sexual assaults, beatings and other cruel and inhumane treatment. In addition to Abdic's paramilitary forces, a paramilitary unit from Serbia known as the Scorpions participated in the war crimes on Bosniaks., voanews.com, 31 July 2002.
When the 5th Corps of Army of Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina (ARBiH), based in the south part of the Bihac pocket in western Bosnia
Lord Owen, a British diplomat and co-author of the Peace plans offered before and during the Bosnian War#Vance-Owen|Vance-Owen and Owen-Stoltenberg peace plans described Abdic as "forthright, confident and different from the Sarajevan Muslims. He was in favour of negotiating and compromising with Croats and Serbs to achieve a settlement, and scathing about those Muslims who wanted to block any such settlement."
After the war he was granted political asylum and citizenship
Abdic ran for the position of Bosniak member of the Bosnian presidency in 2002 on the Democratic People's Community party ticket in 2002 and won 4.1% of the vote.
Abdic was LS BiH's candidate for the mayor of Velika Kladuša in the Bosnian municipal elections, 2016. He received 9,026 votes, or 48.10%, and was elected as the new mayor.
*Elvira Abdic-Jelenovic
* 
* Aubrey Verboven's book '''' provides an extremely detailed depiction of life in Velika Kladuša and the Batnoga refugee camp in 1994-95. It also bears witness to the concentration camp inhabitants and Serbian paramilitaries who roamed Velika Kladuša during that time.
  
  
 
'''Zlatko Aleksovski''' (born 8 January 1960) is a former Bosnian Croat prison commander during the Bosnian War who was indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and sentenced to seven years imprisonment for unlawful treatment of prisoners in Lašva Valley area in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Zlatko Aleksovski was born in Pakrac, People's Republic of Croatia|PR Croatia, Yugoslavia on 8 January 1960. He later attained a degree from the University of Sarajevo in Sociology. After graduating from University, Aleksovski worked in the prison at Zenica as a prison officer from 1987-92, in charge of rehabilitating and overseeing for the welfare of approximately fifty prisoners.
During the Croat-Bosniak War (part of the 1992-95 Bosnian War) Aleksovski was the prison commander of Kaonik prison in Busovaca municipality from January to May 1993. 
During this period he received several hundred Bosniak civilians from the Croatian Defence Council (HVO) at the detention centre in Kaonik. 
During his command at Kaonik prison, the ICTY found that "''Many detainees under his control were subjected to inhumane treatment, including excessive and cruel interrogation, physical and psychological harm, and forced labour, the detainees were also used as human shields and murdered or otherwise killed.''" After serving as prison commander at Kaonik, Aleksovski later served as HVO 'Head of District' at Mostar Prison in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
On 8 June 1996 shortly after the end of the Bosnian War, Aleksovski was arrested by Croatian authorities in Split, Croatia|Split, before being transferred to the ICTY in The Hague, Netherlands on 28 April 1997. The Supreme Court of Croatia had authorised Aleksovski's extradition to The Hague, however he wasn't actually extradited until the United States had pressured Croatia to do so. Aleksovski was charged violating the following Articles of the Geneva Conventions:
*Article 2 - inhuman treatment; wilfully causing great suffering or serious injury to body or health.
*Article 3 - outrages upon the personal dignity.
Aleksovski's first hearing took place in court on 29 April 1997 and he pleaded not guilty to all the charges against him. The trial commenced on 6 January 1998 and closed on 23 March 1999. Although the judgement found Aleksovski not guilty of violating Article 2, he was found guilty of violating Article 3. 
On 7 May 1999 Aleksovski was initially sentenced to imprisonment for two and a half years.
Aleksovski's defence filed an appeal (regarding the guilty verdict to Article 3) on 17 May 1999 and the prosecution countered with another appeal (regarding the not guilty verdict to Article 2 and the length of the sentence) on 19 May 1999. Due to the ongoing appeals Aleksovski was released from 7 May 1999 until 9 February 2000 when the ICTY ordered his re-arrest. The ICTY's Appeals Chamber came to a conclusion on 24 March 2000. The defence's appeal regarding the conviction was eventually denied, while the prosecution's appeal regarding the judgement and the sentence was allowed. The Appeals Chamber stated that Aleksovski was "''the commander of the prison and as such the authority who could have prevented crimes in the prison and certainly should not have involved himself in them. An appropriate sentence should reflect these factors''". Aleksovski's sentence was consequently increased to seven years imprisonment.
On 22 September 2000, Aleksovski was transferred to Finland to serve the remainder of his seven-year prison sentence. Finland was one of the countries in agreement with the ICTY to enforce sentences. Aleksovski was released from prison a year later, on 14 November 2001.
Aleksovski describes himself as being an ethnic Croat. He is married with two children.
'''Andrija Artukovic''' (19 November 1899 - 16 January 1988) was a Croatian lawyer, politician and senior member of the Croatian nationalist and fascist ''Ustaše'' organisation, who held the Interior and Justice portfolios in the Government of the Independent State of Croatia (, NDH) during World War II. He signed into law a number of racial laws against Serbs, Jews and Romani people, and was responsible for a string of concentration camps in which tens of thousands of civilians were murdered and mistreated. He escaped to the United States after the war, where he lived until extradited to Yugoslavia in 1986., justia.com; accessed 10 February 2016. He was tried and found guilty of a number of mass killings in the NDH, and was sentenced to death, but the sentence was not carried out due to his age and health. He died in custody in 1988.
Andrija Artukovic was born on 19 November 1899,
Artukovic joined the Croatian nationalist and terrorist ''Ustaše'' organisation which had been formed in 1929, and in 1932 he was one of the organisers of their small Velebit uprising in Lika,
In Italy, Artukovic came into conflict with a group of supporters of fellow ''Ustaša'' Mijo Babic (known as "Giovanni"). In late 1933, Artukovic left the country. After that he went to Budapest then Vienna where he was arrested and briefly detained in March 1934 before being expelled from Austria. He returned to Budapest, then after meeting Pavelic in Milan in early October, he travelled to London. He was arrested there after the Ustaše assassination of the Yugoslav King Alexander I in Marseilles, France.
After his arrest he was handed over to French authorities, and spent three months in a Paris prison. In January 1935 he was extradited to Yugoslavia, and after 16 months spent in prison in Belgrade, he was acquitted by the Court for the Protection of the State. He was released on 16 April 1936, and briefly returned to Gospic before travelling to Austria in May. He later went to Germany,
In late March 1941, Yugoslavia joined the Axis, but two days later a pro-Allied Yugoslav coup d'état|coup d'état overthrew the government that had signed the treaty. In response, Adolf Hitler decided to invade and dismember Yugoslavia. The German-led Axis invasion of Yugoslavia in early April comprehensively defeated the Yugoslav military, and the country was divided up between the Axis powers. Before the Yugoslav government had capitulated, the Germans engineered the creation of the Independent State of Croatia, and placed Pavelic and the ''Ustaše'' in charge.
Slavko Kvaternik, the most senior ''Ustaše'' still in Yugoslavia, proclaimed the Independent State of Croatia on 10 April 1941,
On 17 April, to provide authority for ''Ustaše'' policies targeting Serbs, Jews, Roma and anti-''Ustaše'' Croats and Bosniaks within the NDH, Pavelic proclaimed the Law Decree on the Defence of the People and the State. It prohibited any person from acting against the Croatian people and its interests, for which the penalty was death. Such alleged offences were to be dealt with in a summary manner by a panel similar to a court martial.
In the meantime, Artukovic participated in the Croatian-Italian border negotiations that took place between Pavelic and the Italian Foreign Minister Count Galeazzo Ciano in Italian-annexed Ljubljana on 25 April 1941.
On 6 June, Artukovic accompanied Pavelic during his visit to Adolf Hitler.
'' in 1942
With other members of Government, he left Zagreb on 6 May 1945 and went to Austria. He was detained in an Allied camp in Spittal an der Drau. On 18 May 1945, British extradited some Croatian ministers and Prime Minister Nikola Mandic to the Yugoslav authorities. Artukovic was not extradited, but he was released soon with remaining ministers. He left the British occupational zone, then went via the American to the French occupational zone, where his family was. With a Swiss passport under the pseudonym of Alois Anich, he traveled to Ireland. In 1948, with his wife and children, he entered the United States on a tourist visa and settled in Seal Beach, California. He worked at a company owned by his brother.
In July 1945, the Yugoslav State Commission for Investigation of Crimes of Occupiers and Their Allies declared Artukovic a war criminal. The Government of the FPR Yugoslavia made a request for his extradition on 29 August 1951. Their request met with a seven years long bureaucratic delay in Los Angeles, California due to the influence of the Croatian émigré community and the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles, to whom Artukovic and his family had appealed. On 15 January 1959, U.S. Commissioner Theodore Hocke rejected Yugoslavia's extradition request;
During the trial, the United States Justice Department (USDOJ) attorneys referred to Artukovic as the "Butcher of the Balkans".
*ordering the deaths of a lawyer and former member of the Yugoslav National Assembly, Dr. Ješa Vidic, in early 1941;
*ordering the deaths by machine gun fire of 450 men, women and children in late 1941 because there was no room for them in a concentration camp;
*ordering the killing of the entire population of the town of Vrginmost and its surrounding villages in 1942; and
*ordering the execution of "several hundred" prisoners at Samobor Castle near Zagreb in 1943 by having them driven into an open field, where they were machine-gunned and then crushed by tanks.
The court held that Artukovic's intent had originated with "his Ustaša orientation, by which persecutions, concentration camps and mass killings of Serbs, Jews, Gypsies, as well as Croats who did not accept the ideology, were part of the implementation of a program of creating a 'pure' Croatia." In sentencing him to death, the court described him as one of the "ruthless murderers, who under the cover of 'protecting purity of race and faith' and with the aim of realising their Nazi-Fascist ideology, [... ] killed, slaughtered, tortured, crippled, exposed to great suffering, and persecuted thousands and thousands of people, among whom were women and children."
Artukovic died of natural causes in prison hospital in Zagreb on 16 January 1988.
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
 
 
'''Frans Cornelis Adrianus van Anraat''' (born August 9, 1942 in Den Helder) is a Dutch businessman.  He sold raw materials for the production of chemical weapons to Iraq during the reign of Saddam Hussein. In December 2005 a court in The Hague convicted him of complicity in war crimes for his role in selling chemical weapons to Saddam Hussein's government and given a 15-year sentence. BBC News, 23 December 2005 In 2007 the appeal court sentenced Van Anraat to seventeen years in prison.
Van Anraat is the only Dutchman ever to appear on the FBI Ten Most Wanted Fugitives|FBI's most wanted list.
During the 1970s Van Anraat worked at engineering companies in Italy, Switzerland and Singapore that were building chemical plants in Iraq. Having learned about the trade in chemicals, he founded his own company, "FCA Contractor", based in Bissone, Switzerland. From 1984 he supplied thousands of tons of chemicals to Iraq. Among these chemicals were the essential raw materials for producing mustard gas and nerve gas. Both gases were used during the Iran-Iraq war between 1980-1988 as well as during the Halabja poison gas attack the military carried out on Iraqi Kurds in 1988, in which some 5,000 people were killed. This attack was part of the Al-Anfal campaign of the Iraqi regime against Kurds in the north of the country.
After his arrest and release in Italy in 1989, Van Anraat fled to Iraq, where he lived for the next 14 years. When Saddam's regime fell in 2003, Van Anraat returned to the Netherlands. He was arrested on December 6, 2004 for complicity in war crimes and genocide. On December 23, 2005, he was sentenced to fifteen years in prison for complicity in war crimes, but the court decided the charges of complicity in genocide could not be substantiated.
The court also ruled that the killing of thousands of Kurds in Iraq in the 1980s was indeed an act of genocide. In the 1948 Geneva Convention, the definition of genocide is  "acts committed with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group". The Dutch court said that it was considered "legally and convincingly proven that the Kurdish population meets the requirement under the Genocide Conventions as an ethnic group. The court has no other conclusion than that these attacks were committed with the intent to destroy the Kurdish population of Iraq."
Both the public prosecutor as well as Van Anraat appealed the verdict. In May 2007, the appeal court sentenced Van Anraat to seventeen years in prison, this time for complicity in multiple war crimes which explains the two extra years, but not for complicity in genocide.
Shortly after the arrest of Van Anraat, several Dutch newspapers reported that Van Anraat had been an informant of the Dutch secret service, the AIVD.   According to the Dutch press, Van Anraat received protection from the AIVD and was placed in a safehouse of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations in Amsterdam.
* 
|commands=
|unit=
|battles=
|awards=Iron Cross
|laterwork=
}}
'''Alexander Andrae''' (27 April 1888 - 3 April 1979), whose first name is often mistakenly given as ''Waldemar'',Beevor, Antony. ''Crete: The Battle and the Resistance'', John Murray Ltd, 1991. Penguin Books, 1992. was a German military officer from Kozlówki, Opole Voivodeship|Kösling, Upper Silesia. Initially pursuing an Army career, he then joined the security police and eventually the Luftwaffe.
During World War II he was appointed military governor of Crete. After the war, he was tried and imprisoned for war crimes committed there under his command.
Andrae was born in 1888 and joined the army in 1906. During World War I, he served with the 10th Division (German Empire)|56th Field-Artillery-Brigade, in the Staffs of the 2nd Army, the 25th Infantry Division, the 9th Landwehr Division and the XVI Army Corps.
After the end of World War I, he remained in the Reichswehr, from which he retired in 1920. He then moved to the security police, where he stayed until 1935 when he re-entered the army. In August 1936, he joined the then newly established Luftwaffe.
Serving in the Luftwaffe as the Commander of Air Region Staffs 17 (Poland), 300 (Denmark), Balkans, and Crete, Andrae took part in the campaigns against
Poland, Operation Weserübung|Denmark, the Balkans and Crete, respectively. In June 1941, he succeeded Kurt Student as the Commander-in-Chief of "Fortress Crete". Under his command, thousands of civilian residents of Crete were tortured or executed. During 1942, SOE agent Xan Fielding was considering a plan to capture Andrae.Fermor, Patrick Leigh. ''Abducting a General: The Kreipe Operation and SOE in Crete'', John Murray Ltd, 2014. This plan never materialized, since in fall 1942, Andrae was assigned to the Reich Air Ministry, leaving the command of Crete to paratrooper General Bruno Bräuer. However, the idea of capturing a German general evolved into the abduction of Gen. Kreipe. Andrae retired from service in May 1943, to be called again for active duty as an artillery General in April 1945 with the 4th Panzer Army.
After the surrender of Germany in May 1945, Andrae was captured by the British and then extradited to Greece to be tried for war crimes he was responsible for while in Crete. In 1947, he was condemned to four life sentences.
In 1951, his sentence was commuted by King Paul of Greece to four years imprisonment. As a result, after spending four years in prison, he was released in January 1952. Later, Andrae co-founded the German Reich Party.Forkmann, Daniela and Schlieben, Michael. ''Die Parteivorsitzenden in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland 1949-2005'', VS Verlag 2005; ISBN 3-531-14516-9.
* (, 25 October 2009)
*
}}
'''Kurt Wilhelm Albert Karl Agricola''' (15 August 1889 - 27 December 1955) was a general in the Wehrmacht of Nazi Germany during World War II who held senior level occupational rear-security commands in the occupied Soviet Union. A native of Saxony, Agricola entered army service in 1908 and served during World War I. During the interwar era, he held staff assignments and continued to rise through the army's ranks in the Wehrmacht of Nazi Germany. His career ended stalled in January 1939, when he was sent into retirement on political grounds because of his marriage to Martha born Hahn, a Jewish woman. Reactivated again upon the start of World War II, Agricola received exclusively positions behind the front line. As rear area commander of the 2nd Army in the occupied Soviet union during 1941-43, Agricola brought changes in the Wehrmacht's harsh occupation policies and was successful in maintaining control of his area of occupied territory from Soviet partisans. Shortly after the war's end, he was arrested by Soviet authorities, convicted of war crimes and remained in captivity for a decade. One of the  last German prisoners in the Soviet Union, he was released in October 1955 and died shortly thereafter in West Germany.
 (1918)
Kurt Agricola was born in Döbeln, then in the Kingdom of Saxony, on 15 August 1889, into an Saxon family that traced its roots back in the 16th century. He was the second and youngest son of Rudolf Agricola (3 October 1860 - 29 July 1914), an officer of the Royal Saxon Army served of the Garrison Administration of Dresden, and Elisabeth, née Drenkmann (14 May 1865 - 23 October 1937). He had an older brother, Werner Agricola (19 August 1887 - 29 June 1962).''Gothaisches genealogisches Taschenbuch der adeligen Häuser: zugleich Adelsmatrikel der im Ehrenschutzbunde des deutschen Adels vereinigten Verbände Teil 2'' (in German). Justus Perthes Verlag 1941, p. 134; David V. Agricola (1974): ''Agricola family history; a genealogy of the Ackermann-Agricola and Bauer-Agricola families of Eisenach, Thüringen, 1574-1974''. Cleveland
Following his father's career, 18-year-old Agricola entered army service on 1 April 1908 as officer candidate in the 12th Royal Saxon Infantry Regiment No. 177 in Dresden.Wegner, ''Stellenbesetzung'', p. xxi He was commissioned a ''Leutnant'' (Second Lieutenant) on 19 August 1909.Bradley, Hildebrand and Röverkamp, ''Die Generale des Heeres 1921-1945 Band 1'', p. 23-24 The following years, he served primarily as Adjutant, a function that was given to capable officers and gave an early advancement potential within the army. It was obvious that Agricola pursued a distinguished career as staff officer, and (typically for officers with his aims, who participated in specialized courses) attended a weapon repairs course in late 1913.Hürter, ''Hitlers Heerführer'', p. 54
When World War I broke out, Agricola was mobilized along with his regiment, just a few days after the death of his father. Agricola served mostly at the Western front, and although he never received a troop command throughout the war (only staff assignments), this indicated that he was destined for a more ambitious career than most of his fellow troop officers; he became Adjutant of a battalion in his regiment on 2 August 1914, participated in the battle of the Marne in September and was promoted to ''Oberleutnant'' (First Lieutenant) in December. In early January 1915 he served as the regimental Adjutant of his pre-war regiment until August 1916, when he was temporarily elevated to Brigade Adjutant. In that capacity, he saw action at the Battle of the Somme, where he distinguished himself numerous times. On 9 January 1917 he was transferred to the staff of the 219th (10th Royal Saxon) Infantry Division, occupying a relatively quiet sector of the front line in Lorraine. A few weeks later, on 27 January, he was promoted to ''Hauptmann'' (Captain) and four days later, the last King of Saxony, Frederick Augustus III, bestowed him with one of Saxony's highest decorations, the Military Order of St. Henry, in recognition of his conduct during the battle of Somme the previous year. He received his last wartime assignment on 25 May 1917, when he was transferred to the staff of the XII (1st Royal Saxon) Army Corps.Richter, ''Der Königlich Sächsische Militär-St. Heinrichs-Orden 1736-1918'', p. 123
Becoming a staff officer - a group considered the ''élite'' of the German Army - required a three-year course at the War Academy in Berlin after some years of active service.Hürter, ''Hitlers Heerführer'', p. 55-56 Agricola's ambition to become a staff officer, however, was thwarted by the war, as the War Academy closed upon its outbreak. Apart from his relevant staff appointments, he had the chance to participate in a special staff officers course from January to February 1918. During the course of war, he was decorated with numerous awards, including both classes of the Iron Cross and other awards from his native Saxony.
Following the end of World War I in November 1918, Agricola was retained in the Reichswehr holding a variety of staff roles. He was promoted to Major in 1928. From 1927 to 1930, he commanded a company of the 10th Infantry Regiment. In February 1930 he returned to the staff of ''Gruppenkommando 1'' and in 1931 to that of the 4th Division, where, as an ''Oberstleutnant'' (Lieutenant Colonel) from 1932, he saw the rise of the Nazi regime in 1933. Soon thereafter, in July 1934, he received his promotion to Oberst (Colonel), and after a two-month transfer in the Command of the Wehrkreis (Military District) IV (Dresden) he was named commander of the Infantry Regiment ''Breslau'' in 1934 and retained his command after it was redesignated as the 49th Infantry Regiment on 15 October 1935.Wegner, ''Stellenbesetzung der Deutschen Heere 1815-1939 Band 2'', p. 508
Arguably, Agricola could hope, at the time, that he would have a successful career in the ongoing re-organization of the new armed forces of Germany - the ''Wehrmacht''. Besides his tenure of multiple staff positions, Agricola also received very positive reports from his superiors; he was praised as ''"very talented"'', and described as an ''"especially reliable staff officer"'', ''"an excellent regimental commander"'', while it was noted in most of his assignments that he performed brilliantly at his position.Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 165 Nonetheless, his hopeful career soon started to fade away. On 12 October 1937, he was named commander of ''Heeresdienststelle'' 3, a rather obscure unit tasked with guarding the eastern borders of the Third Reich;Absolon, ''Wehrgesetz und Wehrdienst 1935-1945'', p. 72 during this time, his superiors observed that ''"sometimes he underestimated his great concern for the troops"'', an indication of his caring leadership style.Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 185 On 1 January 1938 he was promoted to ''Generalmajor'' (Major General), but no higher commands awaited him: on 10 October 1938 he was named ''Landwehr'' Commander in Oppeln (present-day Opole in Poland) and simultaneously given the command over the fortifications of the city. In his function as ''Landwehr'' commander, he had attend to the organization and the training of older reservists (35-45 years of age), some of them veterans of World War I.Kroener, Müller and Umbreit: ''Das Deutsche Reich und der Zweite Weltkrieg Band 5/1'', p. 710 This was a backwater post for an officer such as Agricola, whose once-promising career came finally to an abrupt end on 31 January 1939, when he, 49 years old at the time, retired from the army and was simultaneously given the honorary rank (''Charakter'') of a ''Generalleutnant'' (Lieutenant General).
The reason for Agricola's retirement was never officially disclosed and remained a puzzling question, until his chief of staff testified in 1967 that the ground was that Agricola's wife was Jewish. For a staunchly antisemitic regime such as the Nazi one, and with the implementation of racial laws, marriage with a Jewish woman could be a threat to an officer's career as well as life. His personal papers indirectly reveal that Agricola had been put on watchlist for racial reasons. Soon, his own ancestry came under official, if indirect, investigation. Initially, Agricola was asked to prove (and was able to do so) his "Aryan" ancestry (up until his great-grandfathers) in 1937. As the effect of the Nazi racial policies became more dangerous to the life of his wife and the couple's children - naturally classified as ''Mischlinge'' - Agricola was forced to divorce his wife Martha, who afterwards fled with her son Wilhelm to Brasilia. Agricola also sent their other children to the Bethel Institution in Bielefeld for their own protection.Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 165-166
In 1939, Agricola also published the book ''Der rote Marschall. Tuchatschewskis Aufstieg und Fall'' (The Red Marshal. Tukhachevsky's Rise and Fall), an account of the career of Marshal of the Soviet Union Mikhail Tukhachevsky, who was executed during Joseph Stalin's Great Purge in 1937. This publication revealed, among others, that Agricola was a convinced Anti-communism|Anti-bolshevist.Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 148
Agricola's retirement was short-lived, as on 1 September 1939 Nazi Germany invaded Poland, marking the start of World War II in Europe, and Agricola was reactivated and appointed as commander of the city of Oppeln. There he spent the following two years on an inactive front, witnessing the Invasion of the Soviet Union on 22 June 1941.
With the Battle of Moscow and the Soviet counter-offensive of the winter of 1941/42, the rear security of the occupied territory was considered by the German High Command of paramount importance, given how stretched the Wehrmacht's supply lines were. The resistance movement and the Soviet partisans, reinforced by Red Army soldiers who had evaded capture when their units were destroyed during the initial stages of the invasion, posed the most essential threat to the control of the areas behind the front. The main formations tasked with the protection of the supply lines and the destruction of the partisans were the ''Korück''s (acronym for '''Ko'''mmandant '''rück'''wärtiges Armeegebiet, Commander of the Rear Area Army Territory).Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 388-389
Agricola was appointed Korück 580, in the rear area of the 2nd Army, with headquarters in Kromy, Oryol Oblast|Kromy on 19 December 1941, with the battle for Moscow in full swing, succeeding the 64-year old ''Generalleutnant'' Ludwig Müller (who had requested his relief because of a heart ailment). Besides holding a command that lacked probability of advancement or distinction - being far behind the front - Agricola had to deal with immense problems as soon as he took over the appointment. Korück 580 was the sole formation responsible for the protection of approximately 37,000 km2 of occupied territory, 800 km of railway (including the vital Kursk-Oryol line), 500 km of roads and 320 bridges. The forces at the Korück's disposal were insufficient for such a task, merely 800 men of questionable fighting value who had to operate in difficult winter conditions. Opposing Agricola's forces were 2,000 to 2,500 armed partisans.Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 387-389
Agricola, finally given a chance to prove himself as commander, addressed the problems energetically. He quickly came to the conclusion that major anti-partisan actions were impossible to conduct due to the extreme conditions and the lack of forces, so he opted to concentrate and fortify his available forces in key positions. It was due to his persistence that the 2nd Army yielded to his requests and reinforced him with over 10,000 Hungarian troops until May 1942. During these months, Agricola's units battled fiercely with partisans, succeeding in killing over 7,200, according to official reports. German historian Christian Hartmann argued that the relatively heavy casualties of the Korück's troops - 1161 dead, wounded and missing - and the number of captured enemy weapons indicated that Agricola, in contrast with the typical occupation policy of the time, was not focused (at least exclusively) in reprisals against the civilian population, in the hope of terrorizing and weakening the partisan movement. Korück 580 was ultimately successful in eliminating the local partisan threat until the summer of 1942.Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 392-393 Agricola also supported the utilization of Soviet volunteers in anti-partisan warfare. In his area of responsibility, in May-June 1942, a battalion formed of Turkestani volunteers, the ''Turkestanisches Infanteriebataillon 450'' (Azeri SS Volunteer Formations#450th Turkestanisches Battalion|Turkestani Infantry Battalion 450) took part in operations. On 30 June 1942, Agricola praised the commander of the unit, Andreas Mayer-Mader, for his effective leadership style.Hoffmann, ''Kaukasien 1942/43'', p. 141 and 143-144  
 
Noting the increasing influence Soviet propaganda had on the population, Agricola called for more humane treatment, so that the population would not be an impediment in the exploitation of the occupied territory for the war effort. For this, he restrained the indiscriminate executions of civilians, though the figures of those executed remained high: he reported that until June 1942, his units had executed 1,600 out of 6,000 civilians suspected of a wide range of punishable actions (the ''Kommissarbefehl'' was also implemented) and released unharmed most of the remaining 4,400. Mass starvation, primarily due to the reckless exploitation of resources by the Wehrmacht was common in other occupied Soviet territories, and the situation in the Korück's territories was not very different. In February 1942, Agricola wrote that the food rations for the civilians were lower than those issued by the pre-war Soviet regime and felt that given the situation, it would be impossible to cultivate positive feelings towards the German troops, thus calling for a change.Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 393-394
'' troops killing Jewish civilians in Ukraine. Agricola reportedly opposed and was ''"outraged"'' at the executions of Jews in areas under his jurisdiction
Among his first acts of assuming the position of the Korück was to revoke the order of the 2nd Army for the immediate liquidation of POWs by the SS, after the dissolution of four POW camps in the area, despite that ultimately their execution was not averted. Agricola considered the improvement of the conditions in the POW camps vital for ''"economic, simply humanitarian and propagandistic reasons"'', an extremely rare declaration for a rear area commander.Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 613 After he was informed of the appalling conditions and the high mortality rates in the POW camps in January 1942, he issued orders prohibiting the maltreatment of prisoners, as well as the reduction of food rations, and sought the establishment of a minimum of medical care, ostensibly for the protection of his own troops from typhus.Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 394-395
In addition, the troops of the Korück 580 were confronted with the Holocaust and the massive extermination of the Jews in its territory, though most Jews had been already exterminated a few months after Agricola's appointment as Korück. It has been speculated that Agricola, perhaps owing to the fact that his own wife was Jewish, distanced himself from the responsible units of the police and the SS. No written evidence exists to support that Agricola was actively trying to stop some of the killings, but his former chief of staff stated after the war that he did so, and furthermore that Agricola was ''"very outraged"'' at the massacres. On an instance, in 1943, upon learning that SD troops were murdering Jews near his headquarters, he intervened and prohibited further executions. He intervened numerous times to bring the subject to the attention of his superiors and made sure that no Jewish POW was handed over for execution.Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 393 and 688-689
In conclusion, Kurt Agricola was one of the very few commanders who tried to change the occupation policies that were the norm in Nazi-occupied territories and opted to minimize resistance by treating the population humanely instead of terrorizing it. According to historian Christian Hartmann, ''"it is difficult to say"'' if Agricola's stance stemmed from ethical values or from political necessity. Agricola's former chief of staff supported the former view, describing Agricola as a "''very humane, highly educated and extraordinarily capable man''".Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 688 Agricola's actions ultimately found recognition by his superiors, reflected by his decoration with the German Cross in Gold on 15 December 1943, a highly unusual award for rear area commanders, as the German Cross in Gold was typically awarded to commanders at the front (rear area personnel could receive, by contrast, the German Cross in Silver).Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 166 and 197-198
Agricola was finally promoted to ''Generalleutnant'' (Lieutenant General) z. V. ('''z'''ur '''V'''erfügung, "for duties")The designation "z. V." was introduced in 1938. It was applied to officers who were retired or inactive within the army (e. g. an officer who was not retired but did not occupy a position) but were scheduled to take up active duties in case of mobilization.Schlicht and Angolia, ''Die deutsche Wehrmacht Band 2: Die Luftwaffe'', p. 51 on 1 August 1943 and also served briefly as commander of Kursk during that year. In 1944, he also commanded "''Gruppe Aricola''" (Group Agricola), a formation consisting of ''Korpsabteilung'' E and a cavalry brigade, which fought against the Red Army mainly in the central section of the eastern front.Mehnert, ''Die geheimen Tagesberichte der deutschen Wehrmachtführung im Zweiten Weltkrieg 1939-1945 Band 10'', p. 80 and 498 Agricola remained Korück 580 until 18 April 1945, whereupon he was placed in the ''Führerreserve'' (Führer's Reserve).
On 9 May 1945, one day after the unconditional surrender of Nazi Germany, Agricola was captured by Soviet troops in Teplice-Šanov in Czechoslovakia (present-day Teplice in the Czech Republic), and was subsequently transported to the Soviet Union, where he was imprisoned in the camps No. 27, 62, 362, 476 and 48.Bezborodova, ''Generäle des Dritten Reiches in sowjetischer Hand 1943-1956'', p. 26Foltmann and Möller-Witten, ''Opfergang der Generale'', p. 137 Afterwards, he was transported to the Prison No. 1 in Kiev, in order to be tried for war crimes. A military tribunal of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev Oblast found him guilty under the Article 1 of the Ukaz 43 (19 April 1943) and sentenced him to 25 years of hard labor on 16 November 1948. He served his sentence in the labor camps of Karaganda in Kazakhstan and Vorkuta in the Komi Republic. Later, he was held at the Voikovo prison camp near Ivanovo, which was designated by the Soviet authorities for high-ranking Wehrmacht personnel.
In early October 1955, following the negotiations between the West German and the Soviet governments, Agricola was repatriated to the German Democratic Republic along with 31 fellow officers (mostly generals, including Dietrich von Saucken).Zeidler , ''Stalinjustiz contra NS-Verbrechen'', p. 70 On 9 October 1955, the transport reached the West German town of Herleshausen, a few kilometers west of the borders with East Germany.
After his repatriation, Agricola was reunited with his family and remarried his former wife, who had in the meanwhile returned from Brasilia where she had fled the Nazis in the late 1930s.Hartmann, ''Wehrmacht im Ostkrieg'', p. 166 On 27 December 1955, two months after he was released, Kurt Agricola died in Bad Godesberg near Bonn.
* German Cross in Gold on 15 December 1943 as ''Generalleutnant'' and commander ''rückwärtiges Armeegebiet'' (rear army area) 580Patzwall & Scherzer 2001, p. 11.
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
'''Hiroshi Abe''' (born ca. 1922) is a former Japanese soldier and a repented war criminal. As a first lieutenant in the Imperial Japanese Army during World War II, he supervised construction of the Burma Railway at Songkrai. Over twelve thousand Allied prisoners of war died under his supervision., mansell.com; accessed 23 December 2015.  
Abe was sentenced to death as a Japanese war crimes|B/C class war criminal and imprisoned in Changi Prison. In 1948, his sentence was commuted to 15 years. He was released in 1957."The construction of the railway was in itself a war crime. For my part in it, I am a war criminal."Statement by Hiroshi Abe, as quoted by Tony Lloyd in the British House of Commons. , publications.parliament.uk; accessed 23 December 2015.
In 1995, Abe testified against the Japanese government in a lawsuit seeking compensation for Koreans in Japan during World War II. "This was probably the first time for a former Japanese officer to testify in court in the trial of war compensation issues.", ne.jp; accessed 23 December 2015.
*
 was a general in the Imperial Japanese Army during World War II.
Adachi was born into an impoverished samurai family in Ishikawa Prefecture in 1890 (the 23rd year of the reign of Emperor Meiji, which is why his father chose the ''kanji'' for "23" to represent his given name "Hatazo"). Too poor to afford the military preparatory schools necessary for a career in the Imperial Japanese Navy, as a youth he tested into the fiercely competitive Tokyo Cadet Academy, which enabled him to enter the Imperial Japanese Army Academy, from which he graduated from the 22nd class in 1910.
Adachi served with the 1st Imperial Guards Division, and then graduated from the 34th class of the Army War College in 1922. Unlike many Army officers of his day, Adachi avoided involvement in the political factions which plagued the Japanese Army in the 1930s. After serving in a number of staff and administrative positions within the Imperial Japanese Army General Staff, Adachi was assigned to the Railway Guard unit of the Kwangtung Army, responsible for the security of the South Manchuria Railway in 1933.
Adachi was promoted to colonel in 1934, and was given command of the IJA 12th Infantry Regiment in 1936. During the Shanghai Incident of July 1937, Adachi also gained a reputation of leading his troops from the front, where the fighting was the thickest. He was injured by a mortar barrage in September, which permanently damaged his right leg.
He was promoted to major general in 1938, and promoted to commander of the IJA 26th Infantry Brigade. Adachi had a reputation as a "soldier's general", sharing the miserable living conditions of his troops and welcoming open discussion with his officer and staff.Budge, Pacific War Online Encyclopedia
Promoted to lieutenant general in August 1940, he was commander of the IJA 37th Division at the Battle of South Shanxi. In 1940, he became as Chief of staff of the North China Area Army from 1941-1942, during the height of its scorched earth campaigns against the Chinese forces.
On 9 November 1942, Adachi was appointed commander in chief of the newly formed 18th Army on Rabaul and the north coast of New Guinea from 1942-1945.Ammenthorp, The Generals of World War II The 18th Army contained the IJA 20th Division and IJA 41st Division, both of which arrived safely. However, the IJA 51st Division, including Adachi and his senior staff, came under Allied air attack while en route from Rabaul to Lae, in the Battle of the Bismarck Sea. All eight transport ships and four destroyers were sunk with the loss of 3,664 men, and only 2,427 men of the division were rescued.
With the defeat of the Imperial Japanese Navy in the Solomon Islands campaign, and with landings of US forces led by Douglas MacArthur at Aitape and Hollandia from 22-27 April 1944, isolated the vast majority of Adachi's forces. His forces, suffering from malaria, heat exhaustion and malnutrition were rendered ineffective for the remainder of the war, despite Adachi's efforts to achieve some form of self-sufficiency by planting crops and giving priority in rations to the sick. As ammunition began to run low, many of Adachi's commanders resorted to banzai charges against the Allied beachhead at Aitape rather than surrender. By the end of the war in September 1945, most of his forces had been annihilated. Of Adachi's original 140,000 men, barely 13,000 were still alive when the war ended. He surrendered to the Australian 6th Division at Cape Wom, by Wewak, New Guinea.
 (right) accepts the sword of Japanese Lieutenant General Hatazo Adachi (left) with Major Douglas Burrows MBE (centre)
At the end of the war, Adachi was taken into custody by the Australian government and charged with war crimes in connection with mistreatment and arbitrary execution of prisoners of war. Although not personally involved in any of the atrocities mentioned, Adachi insisted on absorbing command responsibility for the actions of his subordinates during the military tribunal. He was sentenced to life imprisonment.
After the war Adachi was charged with war crimes, including the killing of prisoners, and on 12 July 1947 was sentenced to imprisonment for life. On 10 September that year he killed himself in his quarters with a paring knife in the prisoners' compound at Rabaul, having first written a number of letters.
In one of these, addressed to those officers and men of the XVIII Army who were then in the compound, he said:Long, Gavin, Volume VII - The Final Campaigns (1st edition), Chapter 15 TAZAKI AND SHIBURANGU, page=386-387 in the series Australia in the War of 1939-1945. Series 1 - Army|url=http://www.awm.gov.au/cms_images/histories/23/chapters/15.pdf |accessdate=March 14, 2010
*
*
*
*
*
* 
 was an admiral in the Imperial Japanese Navy during World War II.
A native of what is now the town of Mikawa, Yamagata|Mikawa, Yamagata prefecture in northern Japan, Abe was a graduate of the 40th class of the Imperial Japanese Naval Academy in 1912. He ranked 73rd out of 144 cadets. He served as midshipman on the cruisers . He returned to naval artillery and torpedo school later that year, and did not graduate until late 1917, so he was unable to participate in combat operations in World War I.
As a lieutenant from 1918, lieutenant commander from 1924, and commander from 1930, he served as chief gunnery officer on the destroyers . He was promoted to captain on 15 November 1934.
Abe was given his first command on 15 November 1935, the cruiser  in the 1930s.
Abe was promoted to rear admiral on 15 November 1940. He commanded the transport division for the Port Moresby Invasion Force in abortive Operation Mo during the Battle of the Coral Sea.
From 5 February 1942 - 29 November 1943, Abe was commander of the 6th Base Force at Kwajalein in the Marshall Islands. As such, he was essentially the wartime military governor of the Marshall Islands, Gilbert Islands, Nauru, Ocean Island and Wake Island in the central Pacific Ocean.
On 17-18 August 1942, a force of approximately 200 US Marine commandos landed by submarine and raided Makin Island. The Makin Island raid was intended to destroy Japanese installations, gather intelligence data, test raiding tactics, boost home front morale, and possibly to divert Japanese attention from Guadalcanal. At a loss of 30 men, the US Marines killed the 85 - 160 Japanese, destroyed the radio station, fuel depot, supplies and installations. The raid attracted much attention in the American press, spawning a 1942 propaganda movie entitled Gung Ho! (1943 film)|''Gung Ho!'', but its military significance was negligible. Nine US Marines who had been accidentally left behind during the raid were captured by Japanese forces, and moved as prisoners of war to Kwajalein, where they were held for about a month.
The initial plan was to send those American prisoners to Japan for incarceration. However, reportedly over the protests of Captain Yoshio Obara (local Japanese commander on Kwajalein) and Commander Hiusakichi Naiki (Chief of military-police on Kwajalein) (although this has been disputed by historian W. Emerson Wiles who states that Obara and Naiki were willing participants), Abe ordered the execution of the prisoners by beheading on 16 October 1942.Whitman, ''Submarine Commandos''
 
From 27 December 1943 - 25 April 1945, Abe was Commandant of the Tateyama Naval Gunnery School in Tateyama, Chiba, Japan. Until the end of the war, he served as a commander of base units at Sasebo, Nagasaki|Sasebo Naval Base in Kyushu, Japan.
After the war, Abe was arrested by SCAP authorities and charged with war crimes, largely based on witness testimony regarding the Makin Raid Incident. Abe was extradited to Guam, where a military tribunal convicted him on 23 May 1946Associated Press, "Jap Admiral Must Hang for Beheading Nine U.S. Raiders", ''The San Bernardino Sun'', San Bernardino, California, Sunday 26 May 1946, Volume 52, page 1. of "violation of the law and custom of war and the moral standards of civilized society." Abe was executed by hanging on 19 June 1947 on Guam.Nishida, ''Imperial Japanese Navy'' and Whitman, ''Submarine Commandos''. Remains was not returned to the family.
Obara was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment, and Naiki to five years imprisonment for their parts in the executions.Associated Press, "Jap Admiral Must Hang for Beheading Nine U.S. Raiders", ''The San Bernardino Sun'', San Bernardino, California, Sunday 26 May 1946, Volume 52, page 1.
*
*
*
* - Neutral review of this book: 
*
*Young, Howard. "Carlson's Raiders on Makin, 17-18 August 1942", ''Marine Corps Gazette'' 87(8): August 31, 2003.
* - Briefly describes the Makin Raid and its impact on future U.S. operations in the Gilbert Islands.
*
*
*
'''István Antal''' (born. 18 February 1896, died. 11 October 1975) was a Hungarian politician, who served as Minister of Religion and Education and as Minister of Justice in 1944. Born in Kenderes, he knew Miklós Horthy from here, who was born here likewise. He fought in the First World War, after his returning from the front he joined to several right extremist student organizations. Antal founded the Red-White Bloc firstly, which worked against Mihály Károlyi's republic then the Hungarian Soviet Republic, then he became one of the leaders of the Turul Student Organization. He met Mihály Kolosváry-Borcsa here at first.
Antal soon finished the University of Law. After that he served as press officer of Prime Minister Gyula Gömbös, later became state secretary of the Ministry of Justice. He was member of the Miklós Kállay cabinet from 1942 as Minister without portfolio of National Defence and Propaganda. After the German occupation the new Prime Minister Döme Sztójay appointed him Minister of Justice and Minister of Religion and Education. In these times he actively took a part in creating the newer anti-Jewish laws and its introduction. He did not take part in the governance after the Arrow Cross Party's coup. In addition he was arrested for a short time, because of criticizing Ferenc Szálasi's mental efficiency.
After the Second World War he was sentenced to death for war crimes by the People's Tribune in Budapest, but he was not executed after Mátyás Rákosi's personal intervention. For the second time he was sentenced to life imprisonment. Antal was set free in 1960, lived until his death in retirement. His memoirs were published in 2004.
* 
'''Mohammed Atef Al-Masri'''  ()  (born ''Sobhi Abu Setta'', also known as ''Abu Hafs al-Masri'') was the military chief of al-Qaida, and was considered one of Osama Bin Laden's two deputies, the other being Ayman Al Zawahiri, although his role in the organization was not well known by intelligence agencies for years. He was killed in a US drone strike in November 2001.
Atef served two years in the Egyptian Air Force and became an agricultural engineer.Potomac Books, "Through Our Enemies Eyes", p. 95. He was also a police officer and a member of the group Egyptian Islamic Jihad before he moved to Afghanistan to repel the Soviet invasion, while operating from Peshawar.Raman, B. South Asia Analysis Group, , November 20, 2001 He has been credited as having convinced Abdullah Azzam to abandon his life and devote himself to preaching jihad at this time.
Atef was sent to an Afghan training camp where he met Ayman al-Zawahiri, who later introduced him to Osama bin Laden.
He attended two meetings from August 11-20 in 1988, along with Bin Laden, al-Zawahiri, Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, Jamal al-Fadl, Wael Hamza Julaidan, and Mohammed Loay Bayazid and eight others, to discuss the founding of "al-Qaeda".Wright, Lawrence. "The Looming Tower", 2006. p. 131-134 Bin Laden later sent a letter to Mohammed Loay Bayazid informing him that Atef and Abu Ubaidah al-Banshiri were to each be given 6,500 Saudi riyals monthly, the same as they had been given for their work in Maktab al-Khidamat.
Atef followed al-Qaeda to the Sudan in 1992 until the group was forced to leave,Foreign and Commonwealth Office, , October 4, 2001 following the execution of the teenaged son of Ahmad Salama Mabruk, and Atef moved to Afghanistan.Human Rights Watch, Kushner, Harvey W. "Encyclopedia of Terrorism", 2002.  Atef,   p. 56
In 1994, he refused to allow American double agent Ali Mohammed to know which name and passport he would be traveling under, expressing concerns that Mohammed could be working with the American authorities.Sullivan, John. Raleigh News and Observer, "Al-Qaeda Terrorist Duped FBI, Army", October 21, 2001 He traveled to Mombassa, Kenya where he met with Mohammed Odeh and gave him money to purchase himself a 7-tonne trawler and start a fishing business.Simon Reeve, The New Jackals: Ramzi Yousef, Osama bin Laden and the future of terrorism, London: Deutsch Limited, 1999, p. 4United States of America v. Usama bin Laden et al, 
While in the Sudan, he allegedly conducted a study which resulted in him presenting al-Qaeda details on why aircraft hijackings were a poor idea as they were engineered to allow the negotiation of hostages in exchange for prisoners, rather than inflicting damage.National Commission on Terrorist Attacks, 9/11 Commission, p. 153 Another alleged study he carried out determined that the Afghan Arabs and Taliban could together topple the dictatorship of Pervez Musharraf in Pakistan, and the government of Iran.Al-Sharq al-Awsat, , February 16, 2002
In 1995, Atef gave Khalid Sheikh Mohammed details for a contact in Brazil.National Commission on Terrorist Attacks, 9/11 Commission, p. 148 When Mohammed returned to Afghanistan, he turned to Atef to set up a meeting with Bin Laden in Tora Bora, at which he told the pair his plans for military attacks against the United States.
Prior to 1996, Abu Ubaidah al-Banshiri, Atef and Yaseen al-Iraqi aided Enaam Arnaout in purchasing AK-47s and mortar rounds from a Pashtun tribesman named Hajjji Ayoub, and they were subsequently delivered in large trucks to the Jawr and Jihad Wahl training camps.Fitzgerald, Patrick J. United States of America v. Enaam M. Arnaout, "", before Hon. Suzanne B. Conlon
In 1996, al-Qaeda's military chief Abu Ubaidah al-Banshiri drowned in a ferry accident on Lake Victoria, and Atef was chosen to succeed him.Lance, Peter. "Triple-Cross", 2006. p. 104-105 He drew up a plan summarizing the positive qualities of Taliban leaders, and showed his "nuanced understanding" that the United States had energy interests in the Caspian Sea which would lead them to want an oil pipeline built through Afghanistan in the near future.
In 1998, a number of militants began to speak openly of their disdain for Atef, leading Bin Laden to convene a meeting at which he spoke at length about Abu Bakr's loyalty to Muhammad. Comparing Atef to the Prophet's lieutenant, he reminded those present that Atef "knew of Jihad before most of you were even born", and warned them that he didn't want to hear any more "negative talk" about Atef.Ressa, Maria. "Seeds of Terror", 2003.
Atef was allegedly sent into Somalia at least twice to meet with tribal leaders, once having to escape aboard a small Cessna aircraft used for transporting khat.Benjamin, Daniel & Steven Simon. "The Age of Sacred Terror", 2002 Years later, a material witness told American authorities that he flew Atef and four others from an al-Qaeda compound in the Sudan, to Nairobi, Kenya to train Somali fighters.Miller, Judity. New York Times, "A Witness Against Al-Qaeda Says the US Let Him Down", June 3, 2002 This led the United States to accuse him of training the militants who attacked their troops in the 1993 Battle of Mogadishu.
On May 7, 1998, Atef faxed Bin Laden a fatwa signed by Afghan scholars on May 7, which said that attacks against American civilians could be justified.National Commission on Terrorist Attacks, 9/11 Commission, p. 69 Three months later, al-Qaeda carried out the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings, leading to Atef's indictment as having been involved in the preparation of the attack.Dawoud, Khaled. The Guardian, , November 19, 2001
Following the American reprisal bombings, Atef frisked journalists looking to meet Bin Laden. On November 4, an arrest warrant was issued in the United States for Atef.USA v. Muhammad Atef, Southern District of New York District Court, November 24, 1998
Atef also began speaking to Hambali in Singapore, as the Indonesian-based militant sought al-Qaeda's financing for Jemaah Islamiyah operations.National Commission on Terrorist Attacks, 9/11 Commission, p. 151 In turn, when Atef informed Hambali of al-Qaeda's need for a new biological engineer, the latter sent Yazid Sufaat to al-Zawahiri.
In the 1999 Returnees from Albania, he was tried trial in absentia|''in absentia'' by an Egyptian court which sentenced him to seven years' imprisonment for his associated with the EIJ. That year, he met repeatedly with Bin Laden and Khalid Sheikh Mohammed at the Al-Matar complex to discuss possible targets for the 9/11 attacks.National Commission on Terrorist Attacks, 9/11 Commission, p. 155  It was accepted that Atef was the one responsible for organizing the hijackers for the attacks.  Near the end of the year, he met with Ramzi bin al-Shibh, Mohamed Atta and Ziad Jarrah and explained they would be undertaking a highly secret operation, in cooperation with Nawaf al-Hazmi whom he named as ''Rabia al-Makki''.National Commission on Terrorist Attacks, 9/11 Commission, p. 166
Following the 2000 USS Cole bombing, Atef was moved to Kandahar, Zawahiri to Kabul, and Bin Laden fled to Kabul, later joining Atef when he realised no American reprisal attacks were forthcoming.National Commission on Terrorist Attacks, 9/11 Commission, p. 191 Whenever al-Qaeda organised games of volleyball, Atef and Bin Laden were forced to be on separate teams since they were both tall, and good players.
In January 2001, in Kandahar, Atef's daughter married bin Laden's 17-year-old son Mohammed; the wedding guests included Osama's mother, al-Jazeera journalist Ahmad Zaidan, a "few" Taliban party members, and about 400 others. Osama recited poetry about the USS Cole bombing, but was upset with his delivery and tried having Zaidan re-record the section before deciding he preferred the earlier version.Newsweek, "Bin Laden's Poetry of Terror", March 26, 2001
That year, Mullah Omar is said to have argued that Bin Laden should not draw further reprisals against Afghanistan by striking the United States again. This led to a schism among al-Qaeda leadership, where Atef sided with Bin Laden, while leaders like Saif al Adel sided with Omar.National Commission on Terrorist Attacks, 9/11 Commission, p. 251
He is believed to have given José Padilla (prisoner)|José Padilla money to travel back to Egypt from Afghanistan, to visit his wife. The two then formed a working relationship. He also gave Ramzi bin al-Shibh money to travel from Karachi to Malaysia to meet with Atta.National Commission on Terrorist Attacks, 9/11 Commission, p. 243 When David Hicks completed his training at al-Farouq, Atef interviewed him about his achievements and asked about the travel habits of Australians, before agreeing to suggest he be moved to the Tarnak Farms training camp., June 2004
Following the September 11, 2001 attacks, and still a fugitive from his U.S. indictment in the 1998 Embassy bombings, Atef appeared on the initial list of the FBI's top 22 Most Wanted Terrorists, which was released to the public by President Bush on October 10, 2001. Debka.com has suggested that Atef led a "elite unit" of militants who captured and killed rival warlord Abdul Haq in October 2001.Debka.com, , October 29, 2001
In early November 2001, the Taliban government announced they were bestowing official Afghan citizenship on him, as well as Bin Laden, Zawahiri, Saif al-Adel,  and Shaykh Asim Abdulrahman.The Hindu, , November 9, 2001
Described as a "devout" and "very quiet man", Atef was one of the few al-Qaeda leaders to not make public video statements. He is alleged to have written a 180-page manual entitled "Military Studies in the Holy Struggle against Tyrants", and directed Afghan training camps himself.Nasrawi, Salah. Chicago Sun-Times, "Key bin Laden aide wrote terror manual", November 17, 2001
Atef was killed, along with his guard Abu Ali al-Yafi'i and six others,World News Connection, , October 29, 2003Associated Press, , November 17, 2001 in a U.S. air-strike on his home near Kabul during the War in Afghanistan (2001-present)|U.S. invasion of Afghanistan at some time during November 14-16, 2001. American intelligence intercepted communications from those digging through the rubble of Atef's home, leading them to believe they had been successful in killing him. 
According to the Combatting Terrorism Center he was killed in a strike on an "al Qa'ida safehouse".
 Although initial reports said that American bomber aircraft had destroyed the house, it was later revealed that MQ-1 Predator UAVs had attacked the structure.James, Michael S. ABC News, "Significant blow: Atef al-Masry's Death a Major Loss for al-Qaeda", November 17, 2001Thomas, Evan & mark Hosenball, Newsweek, "The Opening Shot", November 11, 2002
Donald Rumsfeld was initially cautious and indicated only that reports of Atef's death "seem authoritative".
When American forces sifted through the rubble of his house, they found a number of videocassettes, including five that carried martyrdom messages from Abderraouf Jdey, Ramzi bin al-Shibh, Muhammad Sa'id Ali Hasan, Abdul Rahim Jenko|Abd Al-Rahim, and Khalid Ibn Muhammad Al-Juhani.CBC.ca|CBC, , January 26, 2002 Another videocassette included Hashim Abas casing American institutions in Singapore for possible attack by Jemaah Islamiyah in 1999,Burke, Jason. The Guardian, , October 20, 2002 but was not turned over to Singapore authorities until December 14.Abuza, Zachary. "Militant Islam in Southeast Asia", p. 157 It showed a bus station where American military personnel departed for their base, a temple adjoining American military barracks, a park where off-duty soldiers gathered and the Eagle's Club restaurant owned by the American government for its local workers.Bell, Stewart. "The Martyr's Oath", 2005. p. 136-137
''Wall Street Journal'' reporter Alan Cullison purchased two computers that had been looted from the home on the black market, and noted that while Atef's computer had relatively few files, the other computer appears to have belonged to Ayman al-Zawahiri and held nearly a thousand files, including some of importance. Published also as "Files found: A computer in Kabul yields a chilling array of al-Qaeda memos" and "Forgotten Computer Reveals Thinking Behind Four Years of al Qaeda Doings"
On November 8, Bin Laden delivered a joint eulogy for Atef and Jummah Khan Namangani.Mir, Hamid, , September 8, 2007 Following his death, it was rumored that Saif al-Adl would take over his position as Military Chief of al-Qaeda.Agence France-Presse|AFP, , June 28, 2003 Under interrogation, a number of suspected militants including Ibn Shaykh al-Libi later invented fictitious ties from Atef to other non-involved entities to distract American attention from their true colleagues. al-Libi told interrogators that Atef had sent an emissary named Abu Abdullah to Iraq to obtain chemical and biological warfare training for two al-Qaeda members in December 2000. This led the CIA to release a paper tying al-Qaeda to Iraq in January 2003, and justifying the invasion two months later, which arguably relieved some of the pressure on militants in Afghanistan.Parry, Robert. Consortium News, , April 23, 2009
Atef appeared in a video released in September 2006 that showed the planning of the September 11 attacks.
Atef has been named as a conspirator in the conspiracy charges against several of the Guantanamo captives. In March 2002, Bosnian security forces raided a Benevolence International Foundation office in Sarejevo and seized a computer which contained a number of documents suggesting a degree of complicity with al-Qaeda, including a letter to Atef from Enaam Arnaout stating that "the organization loaned us a Howitzer cannon, and it must be returned so that it can be transferred to Kabul".Shay, Shaul. "Islamic Terror in the Balkans", 2008. p. 55
*Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades
'''Ali Atwa''' (born about 1960) () is a Lebanese national and member of the Islamist organization Hezbollah. Atwa is also known as ''Ammar Mansour Bouslim'' and ''Hassan Rostom Salim''.
He is wanted by the United States government for involvement in the 14 June 1985 hijacking of TWA Flight 847. (He allegedly intended to help hijack the plane but was bumped from the flight. He was arrested but was then released by the Greek government as part of the deal to release the hostages. He then re-joined the hijackers in Algiers on board the hijacked airplane). This hijacking resulted in the death of United States Navy diver Robert Stethem.
On 1 October 2001, Atwa along with two other alleged participants in the hijacking was placed on the initial list of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation's top 22 Most Wanted Terrorists, which was released to the public by President Bush
* Imad Mughniyah
* Hassan Izz-Al-Din
;Sources
* 
* 
* 
'''Othman Ahmed Othman Al Omairah''' ''(also transliterated as '''Othman Ahmad Othman al-Ghamdi''')'' was a citizen of either Yemen  or Saudi Arabia, who was held in extrajudicial detention in the United States Guantanamo Bay detainment camps, in Cuba.
His Guantanamo Internment Serial Number was 184.
Joint Task Force Guantanamo counter-terrorism analysts estimate he was born in 1973, in
Shabwa, Yemen|Shabwa, Yemen.
Othman was identified differently on official US documents and official Saudi documents.
He was identified as '''Othman Ahmed Othman Al Omairah''' on official lists of captives from April 2006, May 2006 and September 2007, and on the memos that summarized the allegations against him.
But, on June 25, 2006, the USA repatriated 14 men to Saudi Arabia, including a man the Saudi government identified as '''Othman Ahmad Othman al-Ghamdi'''., ''Middle East News'', June 25, 2006
The DoD reports that he was a citizen of Yemen.
A Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for his tribunal. The memo listed the following allegations against him:
Detainees whose Combatant Status Review Tribunal labeled them "enemy combatants" were scheduled for annual Administrative Review Board hearings.  These hearings were designed to assess the threat a detainee might pose if released or transferred, and whether there were other factors that warranted his continued detention.
A Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for 
Othman Ahmed Othman Al Omairah
Administrative Review Board, 
on 20 September 2005.
The memo listed factors for and against his continued detention.
His memo was three pages long.
There is no record that
Othman Ahmad Othman al-Ghamdi chose to attend either his Combatant Status Review Tribunal or his Administrative Review Board hearing.
On June 25, 2006 14 men were transferred from Guantanamo to Saudi Arabia.
A Saudi identified as 
'''Othman Ahmad Othman al-Ghamdi''' was identified as one of the released men.
On February 3, 2009 the Saudi government published a Saudi most wanted list|list of 85 "most wanted" suspected terrorists, that included an individual identified as '''"Othman Al-Ghamdi"'''.
 
This list contained ten other former Guantanamo captives.
Half of the eleven former captives listed on most wanted list were also from among the eleven men repatriated on November 9, 2007-in spite of their annual reviews recommending continued detention.
The ''Saudi Gazette'' reported he ''"is believed to have traveled to a neighboring country"'' with his brother-in-law, fellow "most wanted" suspect and fellow former Guantanamo captive, Adnan Al-Sayegh (Guantanamo captive)|Adnan Al-Sayegh, leaving behind his wife and son.
The ''Yemen Post'' reported on September 27 that Othman Al-Ghamedi and Yousuf Al-Shahri had 
contacted their families requesting that they pass on news to the family of Fahd Saleh Sulaiman Al-Jatili that he had died during a military action by Yemeni security officials.
On May 28, 2010, Thomas Joscelyn, writing in ''The Long War Journal'', reported that former Guantanamo captive '''"Othman Ahmed al Ghamdi"''' had recently appeared in a video entitled, ''"America and the Final Trap"''.
Joscelyn reported that the tape was released by Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, and that Othman had confirmed that three of the group's leaders had been killed in an air strike in December 2009.  Joscelyn reported that the tape described Othman as one of the group's commanders.
Al-Ghamdi was placed on the U.S. State Department's Rewards for Justice list on October 19, 2014 In March 2016, the State Department confirmed to ''The Bureau of Investigative Journalism'' that al-Ghamdi no longer "posed a threat to U.S. persons or interests."https://www.thebureauinvestigates.com/2016/01/18/yemen-reported-us-covert-actions-2016/
*  Andy Worthington
'''Mustafa al-Hawsawi''' (, ''Mu??afa al-?awsawi''; born August 5, 1968, with supporting conspirators, Ramzi Bin al-Shibh and Mustafa al-Hawsawi.  Filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia.) is a Saudi Arabian citizen. He allegedly was an organizer and financier of the September 11 attacks in the United States.
Al-Hawsawi was captured in Pakistan on March 1, 2003, along with Khalid Sheikh Mohammed,   and transferred to CIA custody. It detained him at the Salt Pit, a secret black site in Afghanistan.  It was reported in August 2010 that, after months of interrogation, the CIA transferred al-Hawsawi and three other high-value detainees to Guantanamo Bay detention camp on September 24, 2003 for indefinite detention. Fearing that ''Rasul v. Bush'', a pending Supreme Court case about detainees' habeas corpus rights, might result in having to provide the men with access to counsel, the CIA took back custody on March 27, 2004, and transported the four men to one of their black sites. 
It has long been known that, during al-Hawsawi's CIA captivity, his captors injured him, causing him to suffer from anal fissures, chronic hemorrhoids and, most seriously, symptomatic rectal prolapse.
When the United States Senate Intelligence Committee published a 600 page unclassified summary of it 6,000 page report on the CIA's use of torture the world learned that the CIA routinely punished its captives by sodomizing them, claiming the sodomy was the long abandoned medical technique of rectal feeding.
Al-Hawsawi was transferred from CIA custody to military custody at Guantanamo on September 6, 2006. The Bush administration was then confident of passage of the Military Commissions Act of 2006, which restricted detainee use of habeas corpus, and prohibited them from using the federal court system. (This provision was ruled unconstitutional in ''Boumediene v. Bush'' (2008) and numerous habeas corpus petitions were refiled in federal courts.) Al-Hawsawi was represented by the lawyer Jon S. Jackson.
  
Al-Hawsawi's alternate names and aliases include "Mustafa Ahmed", "Mustafa Muhammad Ahmad", "Ahmad Mustafa", "Isam Mansour", "Mustafa Ahmed Al-Hisawi", "Mr. Ali", and "Hani (Fawaz Trading)".
Although it is alleged that al-Hawsawi was a member of al-Qaeda, he stated in a Combatant Status Review Hearing that he is not a member of al-Qaeda, and never swore an oath of allegiance to Usama bin Laden. He worked in its media committee in Kandahar.
Together with the al-Qaeda financer Ammar al-Baluchi, al-Hawsawi allegedly assisted the hijackers from the United Arab Emirates who were to carry out the 9/11 attacks in the United States.
Allegedly sharing a credit card account with Khalid Sheikh Mohammed,, ''Los Angeles Times,'' September 27, 2002 al-Hawsawi also allegedly sent funds to the hijackers. In the Summer of 2000, he appears to have sent a total of $109,910 to some of the 9/11 hijackers in a series of wire transfers under a variety of names. The ''New York Times'' has suggested that "Mustafa Ahmed" sent a total of $325,000 to the hijackers, but the 9/11 Commission verified only $15,000 of this.
Just before the attacks, al-Hawsawi travelled to Pakistan. He was captured by authorities there on March 1, 2003, and was reported taken to the U.S. Bagram airbase in Afghanistan. The CIA maintained a detention and interrogation site there. This was not confirmed by U.S. officials., Cageprisoners
In the indictment of Zacarias Moussaoui, al-Hawsawi is said to have been born in Jeddah on August 5, 1968. Zacarias Moussaoui's defense team identified al-Hawsawi and Khalid Shaikh Mohammed as two of three men they wanted to question as witnesses. The U.S. Federal government claims to be holding both men, but it refused Moussaoui's request citing national security concerns.
Al-Hawsawi was held in secret CIA custody, for several years.
When the United States Senate Intelligence Committee published a 600-page unclassified summary of its 6,000 page classified report on the CIA's use of torture, it became known that al-Hawsawi was held in several CIA black sites during his years in secret detention, where he was subjected to enhanced interrogation techniques which amounted to torture and cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment. In particular, the report revealed that:
* Al-Hawsawi had been held in detention site COBALT, believed to be situated in Afghanistan, in 2003., 14 February 2007 There he was subjected to enhanced interrogation techniques, including water dousing without the approval from CIA headquarters and to rectal examinations conducted with "excessive force", leading to a diagnosis of chronic hemorrhoids, anal fissure, and symptomatic rectal prolapse;
* During his detention in detention site VIOLET, believed to be located in Lithuania,, page 16 al-Hawsawi required emergency medical care, but officers denied him access to a local hospital.
Moreover, the findings of the Senate Report raised doubts about Al-Hawsawi's detention, identifying him as one of a number of individuals who were detained under the CIA's program "despite doubts and questions surrounding [his] knowledge of terrorist threats and the location of senior al-Qa'ida leadership". In fact, after his first interrogation, the Chief of Interrogations wrote to CIA Headquarters saying that al-Hawsawi "does not appear to the [sic] be a person that is a financial mastermind."
On 23 April 2008, attorneys working on behalf of Salim Ahmed Hamdan requested permission to meet with Abdulmalik Mohammed and Mustafa al-Hawsawi.
 
 Hamdan's attorneys had previously requested permission to get the "high-value detainees" to answer written questions. They believed the men would confirm that if Hamdan played a role in al Qaeda, it had been a peripheral one. Abdulmalik Mohammed and Mustafa al-Hawsawi declined to answer the questions, because they said they had no way to know that the questions purporting to be from Hamdan's attorneys were not a ruse. Andrea J. Prasow requested permission for Lieutenant Commander Brian Mizer to meet in person with the two men to try to assure them that the questions were not a ruse, and would not be shared with their interrogators.
In June 2008, al-Hawsawi and four other "high-value detainees" (Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Ramzi bin al-Shibh, Ammar al-Baluchi and Walid Bin Attash) were charged in a military commission trial.  The charges included 2,973 individual counts of murder, one for each person killed in the September 11 attacks, as well as conspiracy, murder in violation of the law of war, attacking civilians, attacking civilian objects, intentionally causing serious bodily injury, destruction of property in violation of the law of war, terrorism, and providing material support for terrorism.  The judge ordered al-Hawsawi and bin al-Shibh to undergo mental competency hearings. On December 8, 2008, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed told the judge that he and the other four indictees wished to confess and plead guilty; however, the plea would be delayed until after the competency hearings for al-Hawsawi and bin al-Shibh, so that all five men could make their plea together.
In May 2009, ''Al Arabiya'' reported that Montasser al-Zayyat, a prominent Saudi Arabian attorney, had been invited to defend al-Hawsawi.
 Al Zayat described suspecting, at first, that he was the target of a hoax.
On August 31, 2009, ''Corrections One'', a trade journal for the prison industry, proclaimed that "Mustafa Ahmed al-Hawsawi" was one of ten captives they speculated might be moved to a maximum security prison in Standish, Michigan.
Originally the Presidency of George W. Bush|Bush Presidency asserted that captives apprehended in the ''"war on terror"'' were not covered by the Geneva Conventions, and could be held indefinitely, without charge, and without an open and transparent review of the justifications for their detention.
  
In 2004, the United States Supreme Court ruled, in Rasul v. Bush, that Guantanamo captives were entitled to being informed of the allegations justifying their detention, and were entitled to try to refute them.
s were held in a 3x5 meter trailer where the captive sat with his hands and feet shackled to a bolt in the floor., ''New York Times'', November 11, 2004 - , ''Financial Times'', December 11, 2004
Following the Supreme Court's ruling, the Department of Defense set up the Office for the Administrative Review of Detained Enemy Combatants.
 
Scholars at the Brookings Institution, led by Benjamin Wittes, listed the captives still held in Guantanamo in December 2008, according to whether their detention was justified by certain common allegations, as follows:
 
* Mustafa Ahmed Adam al Hawasawi  was listed as one of the captives who had faced charges before a military commission.
* Mustafa Ahmed Adam al Hawasawi  was listed as one of the captives who was a member of the ''"al Qaeda leadership cadre"''.
* Mustafa Ahmed Adam al Hawasawi  was listed as one of the captives ''"currently at Guantánamo who have been charged before military commissions, and are alleged Al Qaeda leaders."''
* Mustafa Ahmed Adam al Hawasawi  was listed as one of ''"36 [captives who] openly admit either membership or significant association with Al Qaeda, the Taliban, or some other group the government considers militarily hostile to the United States."''
* Mustafa Ahmed Adam al Hawasawi  was listed as one of the captives who had admitted ''"being [an] Al Qaeda operative."''
On January 23, 2015, the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention held that al-Hawsawi's ongoing detention in Guantánamo Bay was arbitrary, and in contravention of articles 9 and 10 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and 9 and 14 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights., 13 February 2015
On July 7, 2015, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights adopted a resolution on precautionary measures regarding al-Hawsawi requesting the United States of America, inter alia, to adopt the necessary measures to protect the life and personal integrity of al-Hawsawi, and to adopt the necessary measures to ensure access to medical care and treatment., 7 July 2015
On April 25, 2011, whistleblower organization WikiLeaks published formerly secret assessments drafted by Joint Task Force Guantanamo analysts.
  
  
His seven-page Joint Task Force Guantanamo assessment was drafted on December 8, 2006.
  
It was signed by deputy camp commandant Brigadier General Edward L. Secord.
He recommended continued detention.
}}
* , Office of the Director of National Intelligence
* 
* 
*
*, MSNBC
*, MSNBC
}}
'''Ahmed Hussein al-Shar'a'''
Little is known about him. The phrase "Al-Julani" in his nom de guerre is a reference to Syria's Golan Heights, partially occupied and annexed by Israel during the war in 1967. A Jordanian security official says only the top echelon in al-Qaeda know al-Julani's real name, but that he is commonly known to them as "al-Sheikh al-Fateh", meaning "the Conqueror Sheikh".
Al-Julani released an audio statement on 28 September 2014, in which he stated he would fight the "United States and its allies" and urged his fighters not to accept help from the West in their battle against ISIL.
On 28 July 2016, al-Julani announced in a recorded message that Jabhat al-Nusra would henceforth go under the new name of Jabhat Fateh al-Sham [Front for the Conquest of Syria]. These omissions, along with the fact that many senior al-Qaeda leaders are emeshed within the group, lead other analysts to believe that al-Qaeda is in fact ''internal'' to the group, and as such the same associations remain in place.
, Iraq.
Ahmad Hussain al-Sharaa was born in the village of Al-Rafid, Syria in the Quneitra Governorate in the Golan Heights. His father worked in the oil industry before he moved to Saudi Arabia to work in a number of companies there. His father published a number of books on economics. After several years, his father returned to Syria and opened a business near his residence in Damascus. His mother was a geography teacher and has an MA. He grew up in Damascus after his family were made refugees after Israel took the Golan Heights. He studied all his school years in Damascus. He studied media at university in Damascus. The Iraq war interrupted his studies and he left to join the insurgency in Iraq.
Once al-Julani moved to Iraq to fight American troops after the 2003 invasion of Iraq, he quickly rose through the ranks of al-Qaeda in Iraq, and reportedly was a close associate of its leader, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. After al-Zarqawi was killed by a US airstrike in 2006, al-Julani left Iraq, briefly staying in Lebanon, where he offered logistical support for the Jund al-Sham militant group. He returned to Iraq to continue fighting but was arrested by the US military and held at Camp Bucca. At that camp, where the US military held tens of thousands of suspected militants, he taught classical Arabic to other prisoners.
After his release from Camp Bucca prison in 2008, al-Julani resumed his militant work, this time alongside Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the head of the then Islamic State of Iraq (ISI). He was soon appointed head of ISI operations in Nineveh Province.
=
Shortly after the uprising against the government of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad began in 2011, al-Julani played a lead role in planning and enacting a mission, as part of Islamic State of Iraq, to move into Syria and form a sub-branch of the organisation called Jabhat al-Nusra. This group was to act as a front for the Islamic State of Iraq, led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, to whom he had his allegiance and whose command he was under. Al-Julani's formation of Jabhat al-Nusra was facilitated by men, arms and money given to him by the ISI under the orders of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi|Abu Bakr al-Baghdad. It is disputed whether al-Julani originally formulated the plan or if it came from another leader in Islamic State of Iraq. Julani was declared the "general emir" of al-Nusra, which was first announced in January 2012. By December 2012, the US Department of State declared Jabhat al-Nusra to be an officially designated terrorist organisation, noting that it was simply a new alias for Al-Qaeda In Iraq (aka Islamic State of Iraq). Under al-Julani's leadership, Nusra grew into one of the most powerful rebel groups in Syria.
=
Al-Julani gained prominence in April 2013, when he refused al-Baghdadi's attempt to liquidate Al-Nusra as a sub-group and incorporate it directly into ISI, under the name of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). This move would have removed all local autonomy of Jabhat al-Nusra and placed all leaders, decisions, and actions directly under the control of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi|Abu Bakr al-Baghdad. In order to avoid losing autonomy and the individual identity of Jabhat al-Nusra, Al-Julani directly pledged allegiance to al-Qaeda's leader Ayman al-Zawahri, who supported al-Julani's request to break away his group as an independent entity. Although prior to this point al-Nusra already had sworn allegiance to al-Qaeda through Islamic State of Iraq, now it bypassed the latter and became a direct subsidiary of the former. This change in the chain of allegiance made al-Nusra directly Al-Qaeda's official Syrian branch.
Despite some friction with members of the mainstream Free Syrian Army rebel umbrella group, al Julani's Jabhat al-Nusra often work together against the Syrian army in opposition-held areas. The group is more popular in Syria than ISIL, which is largely made up of foreign fighters and has been criticized for its brutality and for trying to impose a strict version of Islamic law in areas under its control. Al-Nusra, by contrast, is made up mostly of Syrians, many of whom fought American forces in Iraq.
=
In late May 2015, during the Syrian civil war, al-Julani was interviewed by Ahmed Mansour on Qatari news broadcaster Al Jazeera, hiding his face. He described the Geneva peace conference as a farce and claimed that the Western-backed Syrian National Coalition did not represent the Syrian people and had no ground presence in Syria. Al-Julani mentioned that al-Nusra have no plans for attacking Western targets, and that their priority is focused on fighting the Syrian regime, Hezbollah, and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. Al-Julani is credited with saying that the "Nusra Front doesn't have any plans or directives to target the West. We received clear orders from Ayman al-Zawahiri not to use Syria as a launching pad to attack the U.S. or Europe in order to not sabotage the true mission against the regime. Maybe Al-Qaeda does that but not here in Syria. Assad forces are fighting us on one end, Hezbollah on another and ISIL on a third front. It is all about their mutual interests".
When asked about al-Nusra's plans for a post-war Syria, al-Julani stated that after the war ended, all factions in the country would be consulted before anyone considered "establishing an Islamic state". He also mentioned that al-Nusra would not target the country's Alawite Muslim minority, despite their support for the Assad regime. "Our war is not a matter of revenge against the Alawites despite the fact that in Islam, they are considered to be heretics". A commentary on this interview however states that al-Julani also added that Alawites would be left alone as long as they abandon elements of their faith which contradict Islam.
On August 18, he received the support of Hamza bin Laden, son of Osama bin Laden in a video message produced by the Al-Qaeda's network "Al-Sahab media".
In October 2015, al-Julani called for indiscriminate attacks on Alawite villages in Syria. He said, "There is no choice but to escalate the battle and to target Alawite towns and villages in Latakia".
Al-Jolani has four brothers and two sisters; he was the fourth born in the family (in the middle). His father worked in the oil industry and published a number of books on economics. His mother was a geography teacher and has an MA.
*  Counter Extremism Project profile
'''Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi''' ( That information was frequently repeated by members of the Bush Administration, although reports from both the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) strongly questioned its credibility, suggesting that al-Libi was "intentionally misleading" interrogators.''''. Directed by Michael Kirk. Frontline (U.S. TV series)|Frontline. March 25, 2008
In 2006, the United States transferred al-Libi to Libya, where he was imprisoned by the government. He was reported to have tuberculosis. On May 19, 2009, the government reported that he had recently committed suicide in prison. Human Rights Watch, whose representatives had recently visited him, called for an investigation into the circumstances of his death; ''The New York Times'' reported that Ayman al-Zawahiri had asserted that Libya had tortured al-Libi to death.
In Afghanistan, al-Libi led the Al Khaldan training camp, where Zacarias Moussaoui and Ahmed Ressam trained for attacks in the United States. An associate of Abu Zubaydah, al-Libi had his assets frozen by the U.S. government following the September 11 attacks; it published a list of terrorists on September 26, 2002 who were covered by this restriction.
The Uyghur Turkistan Islamic Party's "Islamic Turkistan" magazine in its 5th edition published an obituary of its member Turghun (Ibn Umar al Turkistani) speaking of his time training at the Al Khaldan training camp and his meeting with Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi. The Uyghurs in Afghanistan fought against the American bombing and the Northern Alliance after the September 11 2001 attacks. Ibn Umar died fighting against Americans at the Qalai Jangi prison riot.
Al-Libi was captured by Pakistani officials in November 2001, as he attempted to flee Afghanistan following the collapse of the Taliban after the War in Afghanistan (2001-present)|2001 U.S. invasion of Afghanistan.Risen, James. ''State of War: The Secret History of the CIA and the Bush Administration'', 2006
Department of Defense spokesmen used to routinely described the Khaldan training camp as an al Qaeda training camp|al-Qaeda training camp, and Al-Libi and Abu Zubaydah as senior members of al-Qaeda. But, during testimony at their Combatant Status Review Tribunals, several Guantanamo captives, including Zubaydah, described the Khaldan camp as having been run by a rival jihadist organization
Al-Libi was turned over to the FBI and held at Bagram Air Base. When talking to the FBI interrogators Russell Fincher and Marty Mahon, he seemed "genuinely friendly" and spoke chiefly in English, calling for a translator only when necessary. He seemed to bond with Fincher, a devout Christian, and the two prayed together and discussed religion at length.
Al-Libi told the interrogators details about Richard Reid, a British citizen who had joined al-Qaeda and trained to carry out a suicide bombing of an airliner, which he unsuccessfully attempted on December 22, 2001. Al-Libi agreed to continue cooperating if the United States would allow his wife and her family to emigrate, while he was prosecuted within the American legal system.
The CIA asked President Bush for permission to take al-Libi into their own custody and rendition him to a foreign country for more "tough guy" questioning, and were granted permission. They "simply came and took al-Libi away from the FBI." One CIA officer was heard telling their new prisoner that "You know where you are going. Before you get there, I am going to find your mother and fuck her".
In the second week of January 2002, al-Libi was flown to the USS Bataan (LHD-5)|USS ''Bataan'' in the northern Arabian Sea, a ship being used to hold eight other notable prisoners, including John Walker Lindh. He was subsequently transferred to Egyptian interrogators.
According to the ''Washington Post'',
On September 15, 2002, ''Time'' published an article that detailed the CIA interrogations of Omar al-Faruq. It said,
"On Sept. 9, according to a secret CIA summary of the interview, al-Faruq confessed that he was, in fact, al-Qaeda's senior representative in Southeast Asia. Then came an even more shocking confession: according to the CIA document, al-Faruq said two senior al-Qaeda officials, Abu Zubaydah and Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi, had ordered him to 'plan large-scale attacks against U.S. interests in Indonesia, Malaysia, (the) Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan, Vietnam and Cambodia.'"
Al-Libi has been identified as a principal source of faulty prewar intelligence regarding chemical weapons training between Iraq and al-Qaeda that was used by the Bush Administration to justify the invasion of Iraq. Specifically, he told interrogators that Iraq provided training to al-Qaeda in the area of "chemical and biological weapons". In Cincinnati in October 2002, Bush informed the public: "Iraq has trained al Qaeda members in bomb making and poisons and gases."
This claim was repeated several times in the run-up to the war, including in then-Secretary of State Colin Powell's speech to the U.N Security Council on February 5, 2003, which concluded with a long recitation of the information provided by al-Libi. Powell's speech was made less than a month after a then-classified CIA report concluded that the information provided by al-Libi was unreliable, and about a year after a DIA report concluded the same thing.
Al-Libi recanted these claims in January 2004 after U.S. interrogators presented "new evidence from other detainees that cast doubt on his claims", according to ''Newsweek''.
An article published in the November 5, 2005 ''New York Times'' quoted two paragraphs of a Defense Intelligence Agency report, declassified upon request by Senator Carl Levin, that expressed doubts about the results of al-Libi's interrogation in February 2002.
Al-Libi told a foreign intelligence service that:
"Iraq — acting on the request of al-Qa'ida militant Abu Abdullah, who was Muhammad Atif's emissary — agreed to provide unspecified chemical or biological weapons training for two al-Qa'ida associates beginning in December 2000. The two individuals departed for Iraq but did not return, so al-Libi was not in a position to know if any training had taken place." 
The September 2002 version of ''Iraqi Support for Terrorism'' stated that al-Libi said Iraq had "provided" chemical and biological weapons training for two al-Qaeda associates in 2000, but also stated that al-Libi "did not know the results of the training."
The 2006 Senate Report on Pre-war Intelligence on Iraq stated that "Although DIA coordinated on CIA's ''Iraqi Support for Terrorism'' paper, DIA analysis preceding that assessment was more skeptical of the al-Libi reporting." In July 2002, DIA assessed "It is plausible al-Qa'ida attempted to obtain CB assistance from Iraq and Ibn al-Shaykh is sufficiently senior to have access to such sensitive information. However, Ibn al-Shaykh's information lacks details concerning the individual Iraqis involved, the specific CB materials associated with the assistance and the location where the alleged training occurred. The information is also second hand, and not derived from Ibn al-Shaykh's personal experience."
The Senate report also states "According to al-Libi, after his decision to fabricate information for debriefers, he 'lied about being a member of al-Qa'ida. Although he considered himself close to, but not a member of, al-Qa'ida, he knew enough about the senior members, organization and operations to claim to be a member.'"
On September 8, 2006, the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released "Phase II" of its report on prewar intelligence on Iraq. Conclusion 3 of the report states the following:
On June 11, 2008 ''Newsweek'' published an account of material from a "previously undisclosed CIA report written in the summer of 2002". The article reported that on August 7, 2002 CIA analysts had drafted a high-level report that expressed serious doubts about the information flowing from al-Libi's interrogation. The information that al-Libi acknowledged being a member of al-Qaeda's executive council was not supported by other sources. According to al-Libi, in Egypt he was locked in a tiny box less than 20 inches high and held for 17 hours and after being let out he was thrown to the floor and punched for 15 minutes. According to CIA operational cables, only then did he tell his "fabricated" story about al-Qaeda members being dispatched to Iraq.
In November 2006, a Moroccan using the pseudonym Omar Nasiri, having infiltrated al-Qaeda in the 1990s, wrote the book, ''Inside the Jihad: My Life with al Qaeda, a Spy's story''. In the book, Nasiri claims that al-Libi deliberately planted information to encourage the U.S. to invade Iraq. In an interview with BBC2's ''Newsnight'', Nasiri said Libi "needed the conflict in Iraq because months before I heard him telling us when a question was asked in the mosque after the prayer in the evening, where is the best country to fight the jihad?" Nasiri said that Libi had identified Iraq as the "weakest" Muslim country. He suggested to ''Newsnight'' that al-Libi wanted to overthrow Saddam and use Iraq as a jihadist base. Nasiri describes al-Libi as one of the leaders at the Afghan camp, and characterizes him as "brilliant in every way." He said that learning how to withstand interrogations and supply false information was a key part of the training in the camps. Al-Libi "knew what his interrogators wanted, and he was happy to give it to them. He wanted to see Saddam toppled even more than the Americans did."
In April 2007 former Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet released his memoir titled ''At the Center of the Storm: My Years at the CIA''. With regard to al-Libi, Tenet writes the following:
In 2006 the Bush Administration announced that it was transferring high-value al-Qaeda detainees from CIA secret prisons so they could be put on trial by military commissions.
But the Administration was conspicuously silent about al-Libi. In December 2014, it was revealed that he had been transferred to the Guantanamo Bay detention camp in 2003 and transferred to Morocco on March 27, 2004.
Noman Benotman, a former Mujahideen who knew Libi, told ''Newsweek'' that during a recent trip to Tripoli, he met with a senior Libyan government official who confirmed to him that Libi had been transferred to Libya and was being held in prison there. He was suffering from tuberculosis.
On May 10, 2009, the English language edition of the Libyan newspaper ''Ennahar'' reported that the government said that Al-Libi had been repatriated to Libyan custody in 2006, and had recently committed suicide by hanging.
Al-Libi had been visited in April 2009 by a team from Human Rights Watch. His sudden death so soon after this visit has led human rights organisations and Islamic groups to question whether it was truly a suicide. Clive Stafford Smith, Legal Director of the UK branch of the human rights group Reprieve, said, "We are told that al-Libi committed suicide in his Libyan prison. If this is true it would be because of his torture and abuse. If false, it may reflect a desire to silence one of the greatest embarrassments to the Bush administration." Hafed Al-Ghwell, a Libya expert and director of communications at the Dubai campus of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, commented,
"This is a regime with a long history of killing people in jail and then claiming it was suicide. My guess is Libya has seen the winds of change in America and wanted to bury this man before international organisations start demanding access to him."
 
On June 19, 2009, Andy Worthington published new information on al-Libi's death.
 Worthington gave a detailed timeline of Al Libi's last years.
The head of the Washington, D.C.|Washington office of Human Rights Watch said al-Libi was "Exhibit A" in hearings on the relationship between pre-Iraq War false intelligence and torture. Confirmation of al-Libi's location came two weeks prior to his death. An independent investigation of his death has been requested by Human Rights Watch.Peter Finn , ''The Washington Post,'' (May 12, 2009)
On October 4, 2009 the ''Reuters'' reported that Ayman Al Zawahiri, the head of al-Qaeda, had asserted that Libya had caused al-Libi's death through torture.
* Black site
* Ghost detainee
* Extraordinary rendition
* ''Taxi to the Dark Side''
* 
* 
* 
* , October 26, 2005
* 
* 
* 
* Kurt Nimmo. http://kurtnimmo.com/?p=168 CIA Patsy Spins Fairy Tale Plot to Assassinate Bush, ''Another Day in the Empire'', December 23, 2005.
* 
The Saudi '''Abdelkarim Hussein Mohamed Al-Nasser''' () is an alleged member and suspected leader at the FBI of the terrorist organization Hizballah Al-Hijaz|Saudi Hizballah, wanted , 29-page PDF file in the United States in connection with 1996 Khobar Towers bombing.
Al-Nasser was born in Al-Hasa|Al Ihsa, Saudi Arabia and speaks Arabic and Persian.
Al-Nasser has been on the FBI Most Wanted Terrorists list since its inception in 2001. The Rewards for Justice Program is offering up to USD|US$5 million for information leading to the capture of Abdelkarim Al-Nasser. Abdelkarim Hussein Mohamed Al-Nasser has been indicted in the Eastern District of Virginia for the June 25, 1996, bombing of the Khobar Towers military housing complex in Dhahran, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Al-Nasser is the alleged leader of the terrorist organization, Saudi Hizballah.
 , Rewards for Justice, US Dept. of State
According to former FBI director Louis Freeh, Al-Nasser is living in Iran.
}}
'''Saleh Al-Qaraawi''' (in Arabic ???? ????????) is a Saudi militant Jihadist.
 
Al-Qaraawi fought in the Iraqi insurgency (2003-11)|Iraqi Insurgency alongside Al Qaeda in Iraq leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. He was a founder of the militant Abdullah Azzam Brigades in 2009, which has carried out a number of attacks in the Middle East. He was identified as the leader of Al Qaeda in Saudi Arabia by Saudi Arabian security officials in a February 3, 2009 list of their 85 most wanted.
In December 2011, the US State Department listed him as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist
 
Al-Qaraawi was arrested on June 9, 2012 after returning to Saudi Arabia from Pakistan where he had been wounded in a drone strike.
}}
'''Fahd Mohammed Ahmed al-Quso''' (November 12, 1974 - May 6, 2012), also known as Abu Huthaifah, Abu Huthaifah Al-Yemeni, Abu Al-Bara', Abu Hathayfah Al-Adani, Abu Huthaifah Al-Adani, Fahd Mohammed Ahmed Al-Awlaqi, Huthaifah Al-Yemeni, or Abu Huthaifah Al-Abu Al-Bara,"Most Wanted Terrorist: Fahd Mohammed Ahmed al-Quso"(2011)  Federal Bureau of Investigations, Retrieved 2011-02-25. was alleged to be a terrorist by American and Yemeni officials, and on the FBI Most Wanted Terrorists list. He was wanted by the FBI, Interpol, and the United States Department of State, which had offered 5 million dollars (approximately 1 billion Yemeni Rials) to anyone with information about him."The Currency Converter" 2011. http://coinmill.com/YER_calculator.html#USD=5,000,000 CoinMill, Retrieved 2011-05-05."Rewards for Justice: Fahd Mohammed Ahmed al-Quso" (2011).  United States Department of State, Retrieved 2011-02-25.  He was killed by a US drone strike on May 6, 2012.
During the 1990s, al-Quso trained in Al-Qaeda camps in Afghanistan. In January 2000 al-Quso planned to meet co-conspirators of the USS Cole bombing|USS ''Cole'' bombing in Singapore but he failed to get the proper travel visa and went to Bangkok, Thailand to meet instead."The 9/11 Commission Report" (2004)  The national Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon The United States, Retrieved 2011-03-07.  In Bangkok he met with Tawfiq bin Attash (a.k.a. Kallad Bin Attash), and he also met with September 11 hijackers of American Airlines Flight 77, Nawaf al-Hazmi and Khaled al-Mihdhar in Malaysia.Wright, Lawrence. "The Agent," July 10, (2006) The New Yorker  Retrieved 2011-03-07Josclyn, Thomas and Roggio, Bill. "Al Qaeda leader Linked to Iran may have been killed in recent predator strike" October 9, (2010) The Long War Journal,  Retrieved 2011-03-07. Tawfiq bin Attash was known as Osama bin Laden's "run boy" although he had a peg leg, he acted as an intermediary for bin Laden.  Al-Quso confessed to acting as a bag-man and reported giving Attash 36,000 dollars for a "new prosthetic leg" although it was probably used instead to pay al-Mihdhar's and al-Hazmi's travel expenses to the US.Gilmore, Jim."The Man Who Knew" (1995-2011), FRONTLINE  Retrieved 2011-03-07.Wright, Lawrence. "The Agent," July 10, (2006) The New Yorker  Retrieved 2011-03-07.  However, according to the "run boy" Attash, that amount was much less, about 10,000-12,000.
Osama bin Laden funded the USS ''Cole'' attack and Abd al Rahim al-Nashiri was the mastermind and "field commander."  Jamal al-Badawi and Fahd Mohammed Ahmed al-Quso acted as "local al Qa'ida coordinators" who purchased equipment, including the boat to be used in the attack, obtaining funding and "operational direction" from Attash.  The bombing of the USS ''Cole'' was in fact al-Nashiri's second attempt at launching a terrorist attack on a US vessel and he did so without approval from Osama bin Laden.  The first attempt, in the port of Aden, Yemen, failed after the boat purchased by al-Badawi and al-Quso sunk before it could be detonated.  The attack boat was driving towards the USS ''Sullivans'' in January 2000 but it sank before it could reach its target, so the attackers salvaged the boat and the explosives, and repaired it for a second try."Terrorism 2000/2001" (2004).  United States Department of Justice, Retrieved 2011-03-07
Following the botched attack, Osama bin Laden summoned al-Nashiri to a meeting in Afghanistan to discuss the failed operation, prompting al-Nashiri to order suicide bombers Hassan al-Khamri and Ibrahim al Thawar (a.k.a. Nibras) to attack the next "US warship" in the port before he left to meet bin Laden.   The second attack did reach its target the USS ''Cole'', on October 12, 2000, killing 17 people and wounding 40 others.  However, the terrorist attack on the USS ''Cole'' failed to produce valuable propaganda footage for al Qa'ida since there was no one there to film it happening. Fahd Mohammed Ahmed al-Quso was ordered to film the attack from a nearby apartment for this very purpose but he over slept and did not wake up to film the attack.
Al-Quso was wanted for his participation in the terrorist bombing of the USS ''Cole'' and other terror related activities, including partially funding the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center buildings in New York City.The Long War Journal, (December 16, 2010).  "AQAP operative Fahd al Quso denies reports of his death" Retrieved 2011-02-25  Al-Quso was indicted by the Southern District Court of New York on May 15, 2003, for his role in the terrorist bombing of the USS ''Cole'' in Aden, Yemen, that resulted in the deaths of 17 people and wounded 40 others.
Fahd Mohammed Ahmed al-Quso has been indicted by a federal grand jury and subsequently charged with 50 counts of terrorism offenses, including: "the murder of U.S. nationals and military personnel;  murdering and conspiracy to kill United States nationals; conspiracy to murder United States Military personnel; murder and attempted murder of United States military personnel aboard the USS ''Cole''; conspiracy to use weapons of mass destruction against nationals of the United States; use and attempted use of a weapon of mass destruction against nationals of the United States aboard the USS ''Cole''; conspiracy to destroy buildings and property of the United States; damaging and destroying the USS ''Cole''; conspiracy to attack National Defense Utilities; using and carrying an explosive as well as a dangerous device during the attack on the USS Cole; conspiracy to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization; and providing material support to a foreign terrorist organization."United States Attorney Southern District of New York, (May 15, 2003).  "Al Qaueda associates  charged in attack on USS Cole, attempted attack on another U.S. naval vessel" Retrieved 2011-02-25
The Yemeni government arrested al-Quso within the first weeks of the attack on the USS ''Cole'', but refused to allow the FBI to interrogate him.  When FBI interrogators asked to speak with al-Quso about the Cole attack, Yemeni authorities stated that al-Quso had "sworn on the Koran that he was innocent of any crime" which apparently proved to Yemeni officials that he was innocent.  It took FBI officials months of persistent requests before they were allowed to interrogate al-Quso, at which point he identified September 11 hijackers Nawaf al-Hazmi and Khaled al-Mihdhar in photographs taken in Malaysia.  Then in April 2003 al-Quso along with 10 other suspects in the USS ''Cole'' bombing mysteriously escaped prison and was later recaptured in 2004.Whitlock, Craig, , Washington Post, 2008-05-04, retrieved 2010-01-16Al-Haj, Ahmed. "Main suspects in USS Cole bombing escape from Yemeni prison," April 11, (2003) Associated Press  Retrieved 2011-03-26.
A Yemeni judge finally sentenced al-Quso to ten years in prison in 2004 for his participation in the USS Cole attack. However he was secretly released by government officials in 2007.MacFarquhar, Neil and David Johnston, "Death Sentences in Attack on Cole," September 30, (2004)The New York Times  Retrieved 2011-03-26.Whitlock, Craig. "Probe of USS Cole Bombing Unravels" May 4 (2008) The Washington Post  Retrieved 2011-03-26. Al-Quso is reported to have appeared in a video released by AQAP 'threatening to strike the U.S. homeland embassies and warships."
A picture of al-Quso surfaced with a Yemeni journalist Arafat Mudabish, who interviewed him for a story. Mudabish reports that "he lives in an isolated mountain area where there is no Yemeni government presence."http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/40705420/ns/world_news-mideastn_africa/  He was also linked with the 2009 Christmas bombing over Detroit, as suspected bomber Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab visited him to discuss the plot and the workings of the bomb. Al-Quso was from the same tribe as radical U.S.-born cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, who had an operational role in the attack.  On December 7, 2010 the United States Department of State designated al-Quso as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist under Executive Order 13224 which "blocks all al-Quso's property interests subject to U.S. jurisdiction and prohibits U.S. persons from engaging in transactions for the benefit of al-Quso."  "He was also placed on the United Nations (UN) 1267 list of persons associated with al Qa'ida and the Taliban requiring all UN member states to implement an assets freeze, a travel ban, and an arms embargo against this individual.""Secretary of State's Terrorist Designation of al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula Operative Fahd Mohammed Ahmed Al-Quso," December 7, 2010, United States Department of State  Retrieved 2011-03-26.
Fahd Mohammed Ahmed al-Quso was killed by a CIA drone's missile on May 6, 2012, as he exited a vehicle alongside another operative. U.S. officials confirmed his death, along with confirmation from an official statement by AQAP.http://www.longwarjournal.org/archives/2012/05/uss_cole_bomber_kill.php
*Jamal Ahmad Mohammad Al Badawi
* Washington Post May 4, 2008
*, FBI Most Wanted Terrorists
}}
'''Qasim al-Raymi''' ( Al-Raymi is one of 23 men who escaped in the 3 February 2006 prison-break in Yemen, along with other notable al-Qaeda members.  He next appears in connection to a July 2007 suicide bombing that killed eight Spanish tourists. In 2009, the Yemeni government accused him of being responsible for the running of an al-Qaeda training camp in Abyan province. After serving as AQAP's military commander, Al-Raymi was promoted to leader after the death of Nasir al-Wuhayshi on June 12, 2015., Jethro Mullen, CNN, June 16, 2015
al-Raymi was born on 5 June 1978 in Raymah, Yemen. He was a trainer at an al-Qaeda camp in Afghanistan during the 1990s before returning to Yemen. In 2004, he was imprisoned for five years for being suspected in a series of embassy bombings in the capital.
After escaping from prison in 2006, al-Raymi, along with Nasir al-Wuhayshi, oversaw the formation of al-Qaeda in Yemen, which took in both new recruits and experienced Arab fighters returning from battlefields across Iraq and Afghanistan.
The group claimed responsibility for two suicide bomb attacks that killed six Western tourists before being linked to the assault on the US embassy in Sana'a in September 2008, in which militants detonated bombs and fired rocket-propelled grenades. Ten Yemeni guards and four civilians were killed, along with six assailants.
In January 2009, al-Raymi, along with four other men, appeared in a video calling for the foundation of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, a unification of both al-Qaeda's Yemen and Saudi Arabian branches. He was introduced as AQAP's military commander. The other men were identified as Abu Hareth Muhammad al-Oufi, Abu Sufyan al-Azdi al-Shahri and Nasir al-Wuhayshi.
 
Abu Hareth Muhammad al-Oufi was an AQAP field commander, Abu Sufyan al-Azdi al-Shahri was the Deputy of AQAP and Nasir al-Wuhayshi the former Emir of AQAP.
On 3 February 2009, Saudi security officials published a new list of Saudi most wanted terrorist suspects.
The 68th individual found on the list was named 
"'''Muhammad Qasim Mehdi Reemy'''" or "'''Qassem Mohammed Mahdi Al-Rimi'''", with the aliases "Abu Hurayrah" and "Abu Ammar". Qassem Al-Rimi on the Saudi wanted list was one of two Yemenis on the list, and was said to be a "linked to Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula|Al Qaeda in Yemen, Saudi Arabia".
According to the Associated Press he has "links to a plot targeting the U.S. ambassador in San'a."
They reported he rented the house where the operation was planned and he "monitored the US embassy".
On 11 May 2010, the U.S State Department listed al-Raymi as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist and announced a reward of $5 million for any information leading to his capture or death.
Al Rimi's death has been reported multiple times. He was reported to have died during a raid by Yemeni security officials on 9 August 2007.
Ali bin Ali Douha and two other militants were reported to have been killed during the raid.
Abu al-Rimi was the target of a raid on al-Qaeda camps in Yemen on 17 December 2009, which reportedly was carried out by US cruise missiles. He was not reported killed.
It was reported that he was killed in a 4 January 2010 raid by Yemeni security forces, though this was proven false. However, according to officials, a Yemeni air strike on two cars, one of which reportedly contained al-Rimi, was conducted on Friday, 15 January 2010.  Al-Rimi was reported to be one of those killed.
 Of the eight men thought to be in the two cars, six are thought to have been killed in the strike.
Following reports of his death Al Rimi was described as the military commander for Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. He is reported to have "orchestrated" the 25 December 2009 attempted suicide bombing of Nigerian Umar Farouq Abdulmutallab. Al-Rimi announced the creation of an "Aden-Abyan Army" to free the country of "crusaders and their apostate agents," in an Internet audio tape.
Following the 2013 Sana'a attack|2013 attack on the Yemeni Defense Ministry, which resulted in the killing of numerous doctors and patients at a hospital present in the compound, al-Rimi released a video message apologizing, claiming that the team of attackers were directed not to assault the hospital in the attack, but that one had gone ahead and done so.
On 29 January 2017, al-Raymi was the supposed target of a military action undertaken by the United States known as the Yakla raid. The raid resulted in the death of a Navy SEAL and of a number of civilians including a U.S. citizen. Shortly after the raid, on 5 February 2017, al-Raymi released an audiotape onto the internet referencing the raid. The fact that al-Raymi had been a main target of the raid had not been previously confirmed. In the audiotape, al-Raymi confirmed he is still alive and threatened U.S President Donald Trump.
On 16 June 2015, following the death of former AQAP Emir and founder Nasir al-Wuhayshi, AQAP commander Khaled Batarfi confirmed al-Raymi had been elected by the group's leadership council to succeed Wuhayshi.
On July 9, al-Raymi swore allegiance to al-Qaeda emir Ayman al Zawahiri. He congratulated the recent successes of the al-Qaeda affiliate in Syria, al-Nusra Front, and the gains made by Army of Conquest coalition in Syria. He called for renewed attacks against the United States, remarking ''""All of you must direct and gather your arrows and swords against [America]."''. Reports say that in 28 June, an airstrike targeted the home of Qasim in Abyan Governorate, killing five people, including two family members of the targeted leader. Qasim survived the attack with only some woundshttp://barakish.net/news02.aspx?cat=12&sub=23&id=417862http://24.ae/article/258726/%D9%85%D8%B5%D8%A7%D8%AF%D8%B1-%D9%84%D9%8024-%D8%A5%D8%B5%D8%A7%D8%A8%D8%A9-%D8%B2%D8%B9%D9%8A%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%82%D8%A7%D8%B9%D8%AF%D8%A9-%D9%82%D8%A7%D8%B3%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B1%D9%8A%D9%85%D9%8A-%D9%81%D9%8A-%D8%BA%D8%A7%D8%B1%D8%A9-%D8%A3%D9%85%D8%B1%D9%8A%D9%83%D9%8A%D8%A9-%D8%A8%D8%A3%D8%A8%D9%8A%D9%86
}}
'''Sa'id Ali Jabir Al Khathim Al Shihri''' (12 September 1973 - 2013) was a Saudi Arabian deputy leader of the terrorist group Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), and possibly involved in the kidnappings and murders of foreigners in Yemen. Said Ali al-Shihri was captured at the Pakistan border with Afghanistan, in December 2001, and was one of the first detainees held at the Guantanamo Bay detention camps, in Cuba, arriving on 21 January 2002.
 
 
 He was held in extrajudicial detention in American custody for almost six years.
Following his repatriation to Saudi custody he was enrolled in a rehabilitation and reintegration program. Following his release, he traveled to Yemen.
In January 2009 Al-Shihri appeared in a YouTube video, with three other men, announcing the founding of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.
On 24 December 2009, it was reported that he may have been killed in an air strike in Yemen. But on 19 January 2010, Yemen security authorities reported they had captured him. On 22 February 2010, the ''Yemen Post'' reported that the release of an audio recording, after the reports of his death, or capture, confirmed he was at large.
 Six days later, a Yemeni official told the London-based daily ''Asharq Al-Awsat'' that DNA tests reportedly determined he was not killed in the drone strike.http://www.asharq-e.com/news.asp?section=1&id=31093
On 20 September 2012, sources close to AQAP told the ''Yemen Observer'' that al-Shihri was not killed in the strike. Yemeni officials also told the same newspaper that contrary to what ''Asharq Al-Aswat'' reported, no DNA tests had yet been taken and that the United States had requested that the Yemeni government wait until an American team of examiners could administer the DNA tests on the corpses of the men killed in the drone strike.http://www.yobserver.com/front-page/10022292.html
On 21 October 2012, al-Shihri released an audio tape confirming that he was not killed in the drone strike.http://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/al-qaidas-yemen-audio-alive-17532059https://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5h2sNbForv-S7Xk6kjiaF1wlbanWw?docId=CNG.676c494102878b88ec2d75cd79439caa.231
On 17 July 2013 Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula confirmed that he had been killed in a U.S. drone strike instead of succumbing to wounds. In August 2014, the group revealed in a video that the drone strike that killed Shihri took place in 2013 and that he had survived the 2012 drone strike but was badly injured.http://jihadology.net/?s=journey+of+jihad&submit=
The ''Yemen Post'' reports al Shihri did not finish high school. According to the United States Department of Defense, al-Shihri spent two months in Afghanistan in approximately 2000, and trained at the Libyan training camp north of Kabul.
Al Shihri said that he was in Afghanistan to purchase carpets for his family's furniture business. He denied any knowledge of weapons or participation in hostilities.
In 2001, Al-Shiri left Saudi Arabia and went to Bahrain. He was on a wikt:watchlist|watch list because he was suspected of funding other fighters' travels to Afghanistan after 9-11. He was also accused of helping Saudis acquire false travel documents to enter into Afghanistan. Specifically he was accused of meeting with "a group of extremists in Mashad, Iran", and briefing them on entry procedures into Afghanistan via the Al-Tayyibat crossing.
Al-Shihri was captured at the Pakistan border crossing in December 2001 near Spin Boldak. He was traveling with an Afghan driver, another Saudi man who worked with the Red Crescent, and a member from the Saudi embassy in Pakistan, in a vehicle taking supplies to a camp in Afghanistan. He was found with an injured leg incurred during the American aerial bombardment of Afghanistan. He was also allegedly carrying $1,900.
He claimed he wanted to give the money to the Red Crescent charity organization, but according to the US, he used the money to finance the travel for other fighters traveling from Bahrain to Afghanistan.
*he traveled from Saudi Arabia to Afghanistan, after 11 September 2001, with $1,900, that he planned to give to the Red Crescent charity;
*he was an "al Qaida travel facilitator", who funded other fighters, and guided them on how to cross the Iran-Afghan border;
*he was on a wikt:watchlist|watch list because he was suspected of helping Saudis acquire false travel documents, for traveling to Afghanistan;
*he trained at the Libyan camp north of Kabul;
*he was instructed to assassinate someone, via a fatwa;
*his leg was wounded during the American aerial bombardment of Afghanistan.
Detainees whose Combatant Status Review Tribunal labeled them "enemy combatants" were scheduled for annual Administrative Review Board hearings.  These hearings were designed to assess the threat a detainee might pose if released or transferred, and whether there were other factors that warranted his continued detention.
The three page Summary of Evidence memo prepared for his 2005 annual review listed fifteen "primary factors favor[ing] continued detention" and eight "primary factors favor[ing] release or transfer." According to the 2005 memo he did not enter Afghanistan across its western border with Iran but across its eastern border with Pakistan. According to the 2005 memo the instructions he received to assassinate someone were from Sheikh Hamud Al-Uqqla. According to the 2005 memo he met Abu Faisal al Ghamdi, the Herat regional director for the charity al Wafa which American intelligence officials assert had ties to terrorism, and another al Wafa director had his phone number in his pocket litter. The 2005 memo repeated Al Shihri's account of his travel and wounding in Afghanistan-that he traveled there for humanitarian purposes, and was wounded within 17 hours of his arrival. He claimed he had never heard of either al Wafa or al Qaida prior to his arrival in Guantanamo. He denied any knowledge of weapons or participation in hostilities, or any participation in assisting militant recruits to travel to Afghanistan. He stated that Osama bin Laden "did not represent Islam".
The four page Summary of Evidence memo prepared for his 2006 annual review listed twenty-two "primary factors favor[ing] continued detention" and nine "primary factors favor[ing] release or transfer". According to the 2006 memo, he decided to do charity work in Pakistan after he heard a speech by Shaykh Abdullah al-Jibrin at the Al-Rajeh mosque in Saudi Arabia and saw videos of Afghan refugees. According to the 2006 memo, he had previously traveled to the Pakistan border with Afghanistan to observe the work in a refugee camp near Chaman, Pakistan. The 2006 memo was more specific about his assistance to potential fighters, stating: "The detainee met with a group of extremists in Mashad, Iran following the 11 September 2001 attacks and briefed them on entry procedures into Afghanistan via the Al-Tayyibat crossing."
The 2006 memo was also more specific about where he crossed-near Spin Buldak: "The detainee traveled with an Afghan driver, another Saudi man who worked with the Red Crescent, and a member from the Saudi embassy in Pakistan, in a vehicle taking supplies to a camp in Afghanistan." The camp was about 5 kilometers from the border between Spin Buldak Afghanistan and Quetta, Pakistan. The 2006 memo stated one of his aliases: "was among 100 names taken from Afghanistan-based military training cmap applications located at an Arab office in Kandahar". The 2006 memo quoted the individual who claimed Al Shihri had "instigated" him to assassinate a writer, based on Al-Uqqla's fatwa. According to this version, Al Shihri was not wounded; he had successfully fled Afghanistan, through Iran, to Kuwait. The 2006 memo also stated he was taken to a hospital run by the Red Crescent society in Pakistan, and that he was arrested in the hospital.
The three page Summary of Evidence memo prepared for his 2007 annual review listed just eleven "primary factors favor[ing] continued detention" and six "primary factors favor[ing] release or transfer".
No new allegations were added. On 9 January 2009, the Department of Defense published two heavily redacted memos, from Al-Shihri's Board, to Gordon R. England, the Designated Civilian Official.
The Board's recommendation was unanimous
The Board's recommendation was redacted.
England decision, made on 23 July 2007, was also redacted.
On 16 March 2007 the Department of Defense published records of the captives' height and weights.
 Al Shihri's height was reported as 62 inches tall. His weight was recorded 46 times between his arrival on 21 January 2002, when he weighed 138 pounds, and 19 November 2006, when he weighed 171 pounds.
On 25 November 2008, the Department of Defense released a list of the dates captives departed from Guantanamo.
According to that list he was repatriated to Saudi custody on 9 November 2007, with thirteen other men.
The records published from the captives' annual Administrative Reviews show his repatriation was the subject of formal internal review procedures in 2005, 2006 and 2007.
But the Board's recommendations from the 2007 review-the only one to be published-were redacted.
The conclusion the Designated Civilian Official authorized was also redacted.
At least ten other men in his release group were not repatriated through the formal review procedure.
Peter Taylor writing for the ''BBC News'' called the Saudis repatriated on 9 November 2007 with al-Shihri, ''"batch 10"''.
He wrote that the ''BBC's'' research had found this batch to be a problematic cohort, and that al Shiri and four other men from this batch were named on the Saudi most wanted list.
After Sa'id's repatriation to Saudi custody he went through a Saudi rehabilitation and reintegration program for former jihadists.
 This program was partially sponsored by the United States.
In January 2009, after Sa'id's release from the Saudi rehabilitation program he appeared in several jihadist videos, including one where he was identified as second in command of Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula.
He appeared in a threatening YouTube video with three other men, identified as Abu Hareth Muhammad al-Oufi,  Abu Baseer al-Wahayshi and Abu Hureira Qasm al-Rimi.
''The New York Times'', quoting American diplomats in Sana, reported that a car bomb that detonated outside their Embassy in Sana was the work of Al-Shihri.
On 26 January 2009. the ''Saudi Gazette'' published a report based on interviews with Al Shihri's father, and current wife.
 
Jaber Aal Khath'am Al-Shihri said his son had spent Ramadan with his family.Ramadan fell in October this year.
The elder Al Shihri said his son was a primary-school dropout, that he had been married twice, and had a young daughter.
He said that his son had been troubled by memories of his detention, where his son told him ''"he thought about death all the time."''
He said that, after his release, his son had hoped to find a job as an imam.
He said that he had added an addition to his family home for his son and his family to live in.
However, after Ramadan, his son left his pregnant wife and child with his in-laws, and disappeared.
The ''Saudi Gazette'' reported that his wife confirmed his father's account.
She told the Gazette he had been acting normally, prior to his disappearance. ''"He used to smile and laugh and was generally happy."''
She described the 3000 Saudi Riyal monthly stipend he received from the Saudi government, following his release, as "an honor."
She told the paper that her husband's sister had phoned her, after his disappearance, and told her he had requested she get a cell phone, so he could talk to her, but then he had not phoned.
The ''Saudi Gazette'' reported that one of Al Shihri's brothers-in-law, Yusuf Al-Shihri, was also a former Guantanamo captive.
While Al Shihri's wife had told the ''Saudi Gazette'' she suspected nothing, his father said visits from other former captives disturbed him, and he attributed his son's defection to their influence.  He said that he regretted his son had not died from the wounds he suffered in Afghanistan.
Muhammad Al-Oufi's mother told the ''Saudi Gazette'' that her son's radicalization was due to Sa'id's influence.
 
On 16 April 2009, ''CBS News'' reported on a message Al Shihri issued to Somali pirates.
''CBS'' reported that there had been little concrete sign of a collaboration between Al Qaeda and the Somali pirates, but that the message also promised Osama bin Laden, Ayman Al Zawahiri and Mullah Omar that al-Shihri's group would be opening a new front in the Arabian Peninsula.
On 27 May 2009, the Defense Intelligence Agency published a "fact sheet" listing captives who ''"re-engaged in terrorism"''.
The fact sheet listed al Awfi and Al Shihri.
''Fox News'' quoting Robert Spencer of Jihad Watch, linked Said Ali Al Shihri to the kidnapping and murder of Christian missionaries Rita Stumpp, Anita Gruenwald Eom Young-sun, and the kidnapping of six other Christian medical missionaries.
:{| class="wikitable"
|
:"If he believed that these people picnicking in Yemen were aiding in the war against Islam, then he can justify these killings as legitimate - it's this kind of perspective that this guy holds to, that it's right to kill people who would normally be considered off-limits."
|}
''Fox News'' also quoted Gregory Johnsen, editor of ''"Islam and Insurgency in Yemen"'':
:{| class="wikitable"
|
:"The most likely scenario is that Al Qaeda's responsible. And if it does turn out that Al Qaeda is responsible, then it would be that al-Shihri had a hand in the operation whether behind the scenes or up front."
|}
While ''Fox News'' acknowledged no group had taken responsibility for the murders it speculated that the possible involvement of Al-Shihri, a graduate of the Saudi jihadist rehabilitation program, would complicate United States President Barack Obama's plans to close Guantanamo.
On 30 September 2009 the Middle East Media Resources Institute reported that Said Al Shiri had released a video requesting donations.
Said's father, and Prince Muhammad Bin Naif, Assistant Deputy Interior Minister for Security Affairs, spoke out against his funding efforts.
On 24 December 2009 ''ABC News'' reported that an air strike in Yemen had killed senior members of al Qaida.
They reported that the dead might include Nasser al-Wahayshi, al-Shihri, and Anwar al-Awlaki.
On 19 January 2010, Yemen security authorities reported they had captured al-Shiri.
He was reported to have tried to evade a newly established roadblock, and to have been apprehended, with another man, after they were injured when their speeding vehicle flipped over.
The ''Yemen Post'' reported that al Shihri released an audio recording made after the reports of his death and capture.
They speculated that the audio tape indicated that the reports that the leader of Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, Nasser al Wahayshi, was killed in the 24 December 2009 attack.
Al Shihri's audio took credit for Nigerian Umar Umar Farouk Abdulmutalib's attempted airliner bombing.
He threatened that the group had scheduled operation to ''"control Bab Al-Mandab strait"''.
The ''Yemen Post'' also reported that al Shihri claimed the USA was planning to insert US troops into Yemen to directly attack his group.
On 25 March 2010, Saudi officials announced that they had arrested 100 suspected followers of Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula.
Judith Miller, formerly of ''The New York Times'', reporting for ''Fox News'', wrote that the captured men were reported to be ''"exchanging coded e-mails"'', with al-Shiri.
In August 2009, the first husband of al-Shihri's wife ''Umm Hajir Al-Azdi'', named ''Saoud Aal Shaye' al-Qahtani'', launched a child custody claim, noting that his former wife was a believer in the practice of takfir (declaring others apostates from Islam), and had taken their 11-year-old son to Yemen with al-Shihri in May 2009.
 al-Qahtani provided evidence of her inability to raise his son, noting that she was married to al-Shihri, her younger brother had also been imprisoned at Guantanamo, three of her brothers were allegedly "militant jihadists", and her second husband had been killed by Saudi security forces in 2004.
On 22 January 2013, members of al-Shihri's family told Al Arabiya that he had died earlier that day after succumbing to wounds from a previous airstrike. An Al Qaeda spokesman identified as Abdulla bin Muhammad stated on his Twitter account that al-Shihri died "after a long journey in fighting the Zio-Crusader campaign."
On 17 July 2013, Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula confirmed that al-Shihri was killed in a U.S. drone strike instead of succumbing to wounds. The announcement, posted on militant websites, gave no date for the death. In August 2014, the group revealed that Shihri was killed in 2013 and had survived the 2012 drone strike, instead losing his right eye, right ear, part of his skull, and several teeth.https://twitter.com/abdulahalmgahed/status/495630206762496001
}}
'''Nasir Abdel Karim al-Wuhayshi''' (''; also transliterated as '''Naser al-Wahishi''', '''Nasser al-Wuhayshi'''), alias '''Abu Basir''', was a citizen of Yemen and the leader of the Islamist militant group al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP).
 
 
 Both Saudi Arabia and Yemen considered al-Wuhayshi to be among their most wanted fugitives. In  October 2014, the US State Department increased the reward for any information leading to the capture or killing of al-Wuhayshi to US$10 million, the same as ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Wuhayshi was killed in a US drone strike in the Hadhramaut Governorate of Yemen on 12 June 2015.
Nasir al-Wuyayshi was born in 1976 in the Mukayras region of what is now the southern province of Al Bayda Governorate|al-Bayda, Yemen. He spent time in religious institutions in Yemen before travelling to Afghanistan in 1998 and joining al-Qaeda.
al-Wuhayshi served as secretary to Osama bin Laden for years in Afghanistan. He left Afghanistan in 2001 and was soon arrested by Iranian authorities, who handed him over to his native Yemen two years later where he was imprisoned without charges.Robert F. Worth, "Is Yemen the Next Afghanistan?" New York Times (6 July 2010). Al-Wuhayshi became the leader of al-Qaeda's Yemeni operations after a Abu Ali al-Harithi|previous leader was killed in a US Predator drone strike in 2002.
In February 2006, Nasir al-Wuhayshi was one of 23 Yemeni captives who escaped from custody from a maximum security prison in Sana'a.
 
His authority seems to derive mostly from his long proximity to Osama bin Laden.
In January 2009, the al-Qaeda branches in Yemen and Saudi Arabia merged and formed al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). Ayman Al-Zawahiri confirmed al-Wuhayshi's appointment as leader of AQAP in a video posted online.
Nasir al-Wuhayshi and three other men appeared in several threatening videos released in January 2009.
 
  Al Wuhayshi published an additional video calling for violence in February.
 
He claimed the increase in western warships off the Horn of Africa to fight piracy were really intended to oppress Islam.
 
According to Yemeni military officials he was killed in southern Yemen on 28 August 2011. 
On 25 October 2011, AQAP denied that he was killed.
On 6 December, al-Wuhayshi released a statement on jihadist websites that AQAP would be intervening in the Siege of Dammaj on the side of Salafi students fighting the Shi'a Houthi militia.
In 2013, Al-Qaeda Emir Ayman al-Zawahiri appointed al-Wuhayshi as his deputy, speculating that he may be the next Emir of Al-Qaeda.
In March 2014, al-Wuhayshi made an appearance in a video celebrating the mass jailbreak of fighters held in Yemeni prisons. Around 400 AQAP fighters were present in what was described as being the largest known gathering of al-Qaeda in Yemen. In the video, al-Wuhayshi declared, ''"We have to remove the Cross, and the bearer of the Cross, America."''
al-Wuhayshi was killed in a U.S. drone strike in Yemen on 12 June 2015. AQAP released a statement acknowledging his death several days later, and announced Qasim al-Raymi as his successor.
|module       =    Al-Qaeda  (1988-present)
|branch       =
|serviceyears = 1980-present
|rank         = General Emir of Al-Qaeda
|battles      = War in Afghanistan (2001-present)|War in AfghanistanWar in North-West Pakistan
}}
}}
'''Ayman Mohammed Rabie al-Zawahiri'''al-Zawahiri is also sometimes transliterated '''al-Dhawahiri''' to reflect normative classical Arabic pronunciation beginning with 
Since the September 11 attacks, U.S. State Department has offered a United States dollar|US$25 million reward for information leading to al-Zawahiri's capture. He is under worldwide sanctions by the United Nations Security Council 1267 Committee as a member or affiliate of al-Qaeda. 
Ayman Mohammed Rabie al-Zawahiri is pronounced  in Arabic. Zawahiri is usually spelled Zawahri (from the pronunciation in his native Egyptian Arabic), but is sometimes spelled "Dhawahri" if transliterated directly from Modern Standard Arabic, also called Literary Arabic, in certain academic circles. Using the Intelligence Community Standard for the Transliteration of Arabic Names, it is spelled Zawahri.
Al-Zawahiri has also gone under following names: '''Abu Muhammad''' / '''Abu Mohammed''' (??? ?????), '''Abu Fatima''' (??? ?????), '''Muhammad Ibrahim''' (????? ???????), '''Abu Abdallah''' (??? ???????), '''Abu al-Mu'iz''' (??? ?????), '''The Doctor''', '''The Teacher''', '''Nur''' (???), '''Ustaz''' (?????), '''Abu Mohammed Nur al-Deen''' (??? ????? ????????), '''Abdel Muaz''' / '''Abdel Moez''' / '''Abdel Muez''' (????????).
The name Mohammed, has the meaning "the very often praised One",    ''Islam Today'' Retrieved 2017-02-15 and is most well recognized with regards to the historical figure, Muhammad|Abu al-Qasim Mu?ammad ibn ?Abd Allah ibn ?Abd al-Mu??alib ibn Hashim, the founder of Islam.  Encyclopedia Britannica Retrieved 2017-02-15
Ayman al-Zawahiri was born in 1951 in the neighborhood of Maadi, Cairo, the Kingdom of Egypt, to Mohammed Rabie al-Zawahiri and Umayma Azzam. 
The al-Zawahiri family was considered "distinguished"  CNN June 7, 2016 Retrieved 2017-02-15 while they lived in Maadi.  Al-Zawahiri's parents both came from prosperous families. Al-Zawahiri's father, Mohammed Rabie al-Zawahiri, came from a large family of doctors and scholars. Mohammed Rabie became a surgeon and a professor (of pharmacy  CNN June 7, 2016 Retrieved 2017-02-15) at Cairo University. Ayman's mother, Umayma Azzam, came from a wealthy, politically active clan. Ayman has said that he has a deep affection for his mother. Her brother, Mahfouz Azzam, became a role model for Ayman as a teenager.
Ayman al-Zawahiri was reportedly a studious youth. Ayman excelled in school, loved poetry, and "hated violent sports" -which he thought were "inhumane." Al-Zawahiri studied medicine at Cairo University and graduated in 1974 with ''gayyid giddan''. Following that he served three years as a surgeon in the Egyptian Army after which he established a clinic near his parents in Maadi. In 1978, he also earned a master's degree in surgery. Ayman al-Zawahiri has also shown a radical understanding of Islamic theology and Islamic history. and French.
Al-Zawahiri participated in Youth activism as a student. He became both quite pious and political, under the influence of his uncle Mahfouz Azzam, and lecturer Mostafa Kamel Wasfi.Monstasser el-Zayyat|El-Zayyat, Montasser, "Qaeda", 2004. tr. by Ahmed Fakry
Sayyid Qutb preached that to restore Islam and free Muslims, a vanguard of true Muslims modeling itself after the original Companions of the Prophet had to be developed.Qutb, ''Milestones'', pp. 16, 20 (pp. 17-18).
By the age of 14, al-Zawahiri had joined the Muslim Brotherhood. The following year the Egyptian government executed Qutb for conspiracy, and al-Zawahiri, along with four other secondary school students, helped form an "underground cell devoted to overthrowing the government and establishing an Islamist state." It was at this early age that al-Zawahiri developed a mission in life, "to put Qutb's vision into action."Wright, p. 37. His cell eventually merged with others to form al-Jihad or Egyptian Islamic Jihad.Wright, p. 42.
Ayman al-Zawahiri has been married at least four times. His wives include Azza Ahmed Nowari and Umaima Hassan.
In 1978, al-Zawahiri married his first wife, Azza Ahmed Nowari, a student at Cairo University who was studying philosophy. Their wedding, which was held at the Continental Hotel in Opera Square, was very conservative, with separate areas for both men and women, and no music, photographs, or light-hearted humour.Wright, pp. 43-44. Many years later, when the United States attacked Afghanistan following the September 11 attacks in October 2001, Azza apparently had no idea that al-Zawahiri had supposedly been a jihadi emir (commander) for the last decade.Wright, p. 370. In June 2012, one of Zawahiri's four wives, Umaima Hassan, released a statement on the internet congratulating the role played by Muslim women in the Arab Spring.
Al-Zawahiri and his wife Azza had four daughters, Fatima (born 1981), Umayma (born 1983), Nabila (born 1986), and Khadiga (born 1987), and a son, Mohammed (also born in 1987; the twin brother of Khadiga), who was a "delicate, well-mannered boy" and "the pet of his older sisters," subject to teasing and bullying in a traditional all-male environment, who preferred to "stay at home and help his mother."Wright, pp. 254-5. In 1997, ten years after the birth of Mohammed, Azza gave birth to their fifth daughter, Aisha, who had Down syndrome. In February 2004, Abu Zubaydah was waterboarded and subsequently stated that Abu Turab Al-Urduni had married one of al-Zawahiri's daughters.Intelligence report, interrogation of Abu Zubaydah, 18 February 2004.
In the first half of 2005, one of Al-Zawahiri's three surviving wives gave birth to a daughter, named Nawwar.Bergen, Peter. "The Osama bin Laden I Know", 2006. p. 367
Ayman al-Zawahiri's first wife Azza and two of their six children, Mohammad and Aisha, were killed in an air strike on Afghanistan by US forces in late December 2001, following the September 11 attacks on the U.S.  After an American aerial bombardment of a Taliban-controlled building at Gardez, Afghanistan|Gardez, Azza was pinned under debris of a guesthouse roof. Concerned for her modesty, she "refused to be excavated" because "men would see her face" and she died from her injuries the following day. Her son, Mohammad, was also killed outright in the same house. Her four-year-old daughter with Down syndrome, Aisha, had not been hurt by the bombing, but died from exposure in the cold night while Afghan rescuers tried to save Azza.Wright, p. 371.
Ayman al-Zawahiri worked in the medical field as a surgeon. In 1985, al-Zawahiri went to Saudi Arabia on Hajj and stayed to practice medicine in Jeddah for a year.Wright, p. 60. As a reportedly qualified surgeon, when his organization merged with bin Laden's al-Qaeda, he became bin Laden's personal advisor and physician. He had first met bin Laden in Jeddah in 1986.
In 1981, Ayman al-Zawahiri also traveled to Peshawar, Pakistan, where he worked in a Red Crescent hospital treating wounded refugees. There he became friends with the Canadian Ahmed Khadr, and the two shared a number of conversations about the need for Islamic government and the needs of the Afghan people.Michelle Shephard, "Guantanamo's Child", 2008.
In 1993, al-Zawahiri traveled to the United States, where he addressed several California mosques under his ''Abdul Mu'iz'' pseudonym, relying on his credentials from the Kuwaiti Red Crescent to raise money for Afghan children who had been injured by Soviet land mines-he only raised $2000.Wright, p. 179.
=
In 1981, Al-Zawahiri was one of hundreds arrested following the assassination of President Anwar Sadat.
In his book, ''Al-Zawahiri as I Knew Him'', Al-Zayat maintains that under torture by the Egyptian police, following his arrest in connection with the murder of Sadat in 1981, Al-Zawahiri revealed the hiding place of Essam al-Qamari, a key member of the Maadi cell of al-Jihad, which led to Al-Qamari's "arrest and eventual execution."
Cited in 
In 1993, al-Zawahiri's and EIJ's connection with Iran may have led to a suicide bombing in an attempt on the life of Egyptian Interior Minister Hasan al-Alfi, the man heading the effort to quash the campaign of Islamist killings in Egypt. It failed, as did an attempt to assassinate Egyptian prime minister Atef Sidqi three months later. The bombing of Sidqi's car injured 21 Egyptians and killed a young schoolgirl, Shayma Abdel-Halim. It followed two years of killings by another Islamist group, al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, that had killed over 200 people. Her funeral became a public spectacle, with her coffin carried through the streets of Cairo and crowds shouting, "Terrorism is the enemy of God!"Wright, p. 186. The police arrested 280 more of al-Jihad's members and executed six.
For their leading role in anti-Egyptian Government attacks in the 1990s, al-Zawahiri and his brother Muhammad al-Zawahiri were sentenced to death in the 1999 Egyptian case of the Returnees from Albania.
=
The 1995 attack on the Egyptian embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan, was the Egyptian Islamic Jihad's first success under Zawahiri's leadership, but Bin Laden had disapproved of the operation. The bombing alienated Pakistan, which was "the best route into Afghanistan".Wright, ''Looming Towers'', 2006, p. 217.
In July 2007, Al-Zawahiri supplied direction for the Lal Masjid siege, codename Operation Silence. This was the first confirmed time that Al-Zawahiri was taking militant steps against the Pakistan Government and guiding Islamic militants against the State of Pakistan. The Pakistan Army troops and Special Service Group taking control of the Red Mosque in Islamabad found letters from al-Zawahiri directing Islamic militants Abdul Rashid Ghazi and Abdul Aziz Ghazi, who ran the mosque and adjacent madrasah. This conflict resulted in 100 deaths.
On December 27, 2007, al-Zawahiri was also implicated in the assassination of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto.
=
In 1994, the sons of Ahmad Salama Mabruk and Mohammed Sharaf were executed under al-Zawahiri's leadership for betraying Egyptian Islamic Jihad; the militants were ordered to leave the Sudan.al-Shafey, Mohammed. Asharq Alawsat,  , June 19, 2005.Sageman, Marc, ''Understanding Terror Networks'', University of Pennsylvania Press, 2004, p. 45.
=
In 1998, Ayman al-Zawahiri was listed as under indictment USA v. Usama bin Laden et al., Center for Nonproliferation Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies in the United States for his role in the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings, a series of attacks that occurred on August 7, 1998, in which hundreds of people were killed in simultaneous truck bomb explosions at the United States embassies in the major East African cities of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania and Nairobi, Kenya. The attacks brought Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri to international attention.
In 2000, the USS Cole bombing|USS ''Cole'' bombing encouraged several members to depart. Mohammed Atef went to escape Kandahar, Zawahiri to Kabul, and Bin Laden fled to Kabul, later joining Atef when he realised no American reprisal attacks were forthcoming.National Commission on Terrorist Attacks, 9/11 Commission, p. 191.
On October 10, 2001, al-Zawahiri appeared on the initial list of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation's top 22 Most Wanted Terrorists, which was released to the public by U.S. President George W. Bush. In early November 2001, the Taliban government announced they were bestowing official Afghan citizenship on him, as well as Bin Laden, Mohammed Atef, Saif al-Adl, and Shaykh Asim Abdulrahman.The Hindu, , November 9, 2001.
=
Ayman al-Zawahiri was previously the second and last "emir" of the Egyptian Islamic Jihad, having succeeded Abbud al-Zumar in the latter role when Egyptian authorities sentenced al-Zumar to life imprisonment. Ayman al-Zawahiri eventually became one of Egyptian Islamic Jihad's leading organizers and recruiters. Zawahiri's hope was to recruit military officers and accumulate weapons, waiting for the right moment to launch "a complete overthrow of the existing order."Wright, p. 49. Chief strategist of Al-Jihad was Aboud al-Zumar, a colonel in the military intelligence whose plan was to kill the main leaders of the country, capture the headquarters of the army and State Security, the telephone exchange building, and of course the radio and television building, where news of the Islamic revolution would then be broadcast, unleashing - he expected - "a popular uprising against secular authority all over the country."
=
In Peshawar, he met up with Osama bin Laden, who was running a base for ''mujahideen'' called Maktab al-Khadamat (MAK); founded by the Palestinian Sheikh Abdullah Yusuf Azzam. The radical position of al-Zawahiri and the other militants of Al-Jihad put them at odds with Sheikh Azzam, with whom they competed for bin Laden's financial resources.Wright, p. 103. Zawahiri carried two false passports, a Swiss one in the name of Amin Uthman and a Dutch one in the name of Mohmud Hifnawi.Canadian Security Intelligence Service, , February 22, 2008.
Former FBI agent Ali Soufan mentioned in his book ''The Black Banners'' that Ayman al-Zawahiri is suspected of being behind Azzam's assassination in 1989.
=
In 1998, al-Zawahiri formally merged the Egyptian Islamic Jihad into al-Qaeda. According to reports by a former al-Qaeda member, he has worked in the al-Qaeda organization since its inception and was a senior member of the group's ''shura'' council. He was often described as a "lieutenant" to Osama bin Laden, though bin Laden's chosen biographer has referred to him as the "real brains" of al-Qaeda.
On February 23, 1998, al-Zawahiri issued a joint Fatwa|fatwa with Osama bin Laden under the title "World Islamic Front Against Jews and Crusaders". Zawahiri, not bin Laden, is thought to have been the actual author of the fatwa.Wright, p. 259.
Bin Laden and Al-Zawahiri organized an al-Qaeda congress on June 24, 1998. A week prior to the beginning of the conference, a group of well-armed assistants to al-Zawahiri had left by jeeps in the direction of Herat. Following the instructions of their patron, in the town of Koh-i-Doshakh they met three unknown Slavic-looking men who had arrived from Russia via Iran. After their arrival in Kandahar, they split up. One of the Russians was directly escorted to al-Zawahiri and he did not participate in the conference. The Western intelligence succeeded in acquiring photographs of him, but he disappeared for six years. According to Axis Globe, in 2004, when Qatar and U.S. investigated Russian embassy officials whom the United Arab Emirates had arrested in connection to the murder of Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev in Qatar, computer software precisely established that a man who had walked to the Russian embassy in Doha was the same one who visited al-Zawahiri prior to the Al-Qaida conference.. Axis Globe. 18.07.2005.
As of May 2, 2011, he became the leader of al-Qaeda following the death of Osama bin Laden.
The delayed announcement led some analysts to speculate that there was quarreling within al-Qaeda: "It doesn't suggest a vast reservoir of accumulated goodwill for him," said one celebrity journalist on CNN.
=
At some point in 1994, al-Zawahiri was said to have "become a phantom"Wright, p. 250. but is thought to have traveled widely to "Switzerland and Sarajevo". A fake passport he was using shows that he traveled to Malaysia, Taiwan, Singapore, and Hong Kong.
On December 1, 1996, Ahmad Salama Mabruk and Mahmud Hisham al-Hennawi - both carrying false passports - accompanied al-Zawahiri on a trip to Chechnya, where they hoped to re-establish the faltering Jihad. Their leader was traveling under the name ''Abdullah Imam Mohammed Amin'', and trading on his medical credentials for legitimacy. The group switched vehicles three times, but were arrested within hours of entering Russian territory and spent five months in a Makhachkala prison awaiting trial. The trio pleaded innocence, maintaining their disguise and having other al-Jihad members from ''Bavari-C'' send the Russian authorities pleas for leniency for their "merchant" colleagues who had been wrongly arrested; and Russian Member of Parliament Nadyr Khachiliev echoed the pleas for their speedy release as al-Jihad members Ibrahim Eidarous and Tharwat Salah Shehata traveled to Dagestan to plead for their release. Shehata received permission to visit the prisoners, and is believed to have smuggled them $3000 which was later confiscated from their cell, and to have given them a letter which the Russians didn't bother to translate. In April 1997, the trio were sentenced to six months, and were subsequently released a month later and ran off without paying their court-appointed attorney Abulkhalik Abdusalamov his $1,800 legal fee citing their "poverty".Wall Street Journal, "Saga of Dr. Zawahri Sheds Light On the Roots of al Qaeda Terror". Shehata was sent on to Chechnya, where he met with Ibn Khattab.
During this time, al-Zawahiri also began reconstituting the Egyptian Islamic Jihad (EIJ) along with other exiled militants.Lawrence Wright, The Looming Tower, 2006 ISBN 0-375-41486-X . The group had "very loose ties to their nominal imprisoned leader, Abud al-Zumur."
In Peshwar, al-Zawahiri is thought to have become radicalized by other Al-Jihad members, abandoning his old strategy of a swift coup d'état to change society from above, and embracing the idea of takfir.Interview with Usama Rushdi. Wright, 2006, pp. 124-5. In 1991, EIJ broke with al-Zumur, and al-Zawahiri grabbed "the reins of power" to become EIJ leader.Wright, p. 124.
Zawahiri has allegedly worked with the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of al-Qaeda. Lawrence Wright reports that EIJ operative Ali Mohammed "told the FBI that al-Jihad had planned a coup in Egypt in 1990." Zawahiri had studied the 1979 Islamist Islamic Revolution and "sought training from the Iranians" as to how to duplicate their feat against the Egyptian government.
He offered Iran information about an Egyptian government plan to storm several islands in the Persian Gulf that both Iran and the United Arab Emirates lay claim to. According to Mohammed, in return for this information, the Iranian government paid Zawahiri $2 million and helped train members of al-Jihad in a coup attempt that never actually took place.Wright, p. 174.
However, in public Zawahiri has harshly denounced the Iranian government. In December 2007 he said, "We discovered Iran collaborating with America in its invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq."  In the same video messages, he moreover chides Iran for "repeating the ridiculous joke that says that al-Qaida and the Taliban are agents of America," before playing a video clip in which Ayatollah Rafsanjani says, "In Afghanistan, they were present in Afghanistan, because of Al-Qa'ida; and the Taliban, who created the Taliban? America is the one who created the Taliban, and America's friends in the region are the ones who financed and armed the Taliban."
Zawahiri's criticism of Iran's government continues when he states,
Despite Iran's repetition of the slogan 'Death to America, death to Israel,' we haven't heard even one Fatwa from one Shiite authority, whether in Iran or elsewhere, calling for Jihad against the Americans in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Zawahiri has dismissed that there is any cooperation between Iran and Al Qaeda against their common enemy, to wit, the United States.
In April 2008, Zawahiri blamed Iranian state media and Al-Manar for perpetuating the "lie" that "there are no heroes among the Sunnis who can hurt America as no-one else did in history" in order to discredit the Al Qaeda network. Zawahiri was referring to some 9/11 conspiracy theories according to which Al Qaeda was not responsible for the 9/11 attacks.
On the seventh anniversary of the attacks of September 11, 2001, Zawahiri released a 90-minute tape in Iraq and Afghanistan.
There have been doubts as to the true nature of al-Zawahiri's encounter with the Russians in 1996. Washington, D.C.-based Jamestown Foundation scholar Evgenii Novikov has argued that it seems unlikely that the Russians would not have been able to determine who he was, given their well-trained Arabists and the obviously suspicious act of Muslims crossing illegally a border with multiple false identities and encrypted documents in Arabic.
While there Zawahiri learned of a "Al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya#Nonviolence Initiative|Nonviolence Initiative" being organized in Egypt to end the terror campaign that had killed hundreds and resulting government crackdown that had imprisoned thousands. Zawahiri angrily opposed this "surrender" in letters to the London newspaper ''Al-Sharq al-Awsat''.Wright, pp. 255-6. Together with members of al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, he helped organize a massive attack on tourists at the Temple of Hatshepsut to sabotage the initiative by provoking the government into repression.Wright, pp. 256-7.
The attack by six men dressed in police uniforms succeeded in machine-gunning and hacking to death 58 foreign tourists and four Egyptians, including "a five-year-old British child and four Japanese couples on their honeymoons," and devastated the Egyptian tourist industry for a number of years. Nonetheless the Egyptian reaction was not what Zawahiri had hoped for. The attack so stunned and angered Egyptian society that Islamists denied responsibility. Zawahiri blamed the police for the killing, but also held the tourists responsible for their own deaths for coming to Egypt,
The people of Egypt consider the presence of these foreign tourists to be aggression against Muslims and Egypt... The young men are saying that this is our country and not a place for frolicking and enjoyment, especially for you.Wright, pp. 257-8.
The massacre was so unpopular that no terror attacks occurred in Egypt for several years thereafter.
 sits with his adviser al-Zawahiri during an interview with Pakistani journalist Hamid Mir, in November 2001.
In December 2001, al-Zawahiri published the book ''Knights Under the Prophet's Banner'' outlining al-Qaeda's ideology.
Following the War in Afghanistan (2001-present)|U.S. invasion of Afghanistan, al-Zawahiri's whereabouts are unknown, but he is generally thought to be in tribal Pakistan. Although he releases videos of himself frequently ''(see Messages of Ayman al-Zawahiri)'', al-Zawahiri did not appear alongside bin Laden in any of them after 2003. In 2003, it was rumored that he was under arrest in Iran, although this was later discovered to be false.Agence France-Presse|AFP, , June 28, 2003.  In 2004, the Pakistan Army launched an aggressive operation in Wana, Pakistan. Reports began to surface that he was trapped in the center of the conflict by the army. But when, after weeks of fighting, the army captured the area, it was later revealed that he either escaped or was never among the fighters. As the conflict spread into the tribal areas of western Pakistan, Ayman al-Zawahiri became a prime target of the ISI's Directorate for Joint Counterintelligence Bureau (J-COIN Bureau). However, despite a series of operations they were unable to capture him.
On January 13, 2006, the Central Intelligence Agency, aided by Pakistan's ISI, launched an airstrike on Damadola, a Pakistani village near the Afghan border where they believed al-Zawahiri was located. The airstrike was supposed to kill al-Zawahiri and this was reported in international news over the following days. Many victims of the airstrike were buried without being identified. Anonymous U.S. government officials claimed that some terrorists were killed and the Bajaur tribal area government confirmed that at least four terrorists were among the dead.. Anti-American protests broke out around the country and the Pakistani government condemned the U.S. attack and the loss of innocent life. On January 30, a new video was released showing al-Zawahiri unhurt. The video discussed the airstrike, but did not reveal if al-Zawahiri was present in the village at that time.
On August 1, 2008, CBS News reported that it had obtained a copy of an intercepted letter dated July 29, 2008, from unnamed sources in Pakistan, which urgently requested a doctor to treat al-Zawahiri. The letter indicated that al-Zawahiri was critically injured in a US missile strike at Azam Warsak village in South Waziristan on July 28 that also reportedly killed al Qaeda explosives expert Abu Khabab al-Masri. Taliban Mehsud spokesman Maulvi Umar told the Associated Press on August 2, 2008, that the report of al-Zawahiri's injury was false.''Associated Press'', "", August 3, 2008.
In early September 2008, Pakistan Army claimed that they "almost" captured al-Zawahiri after getting information that he and his wife were in the Mohmand Agency, in northwest Pakistan. After raiding the area, officials didn't find him.
In June 2013, al-Zawahiri arbitrated against the merger of the Islamic State of Iraq with the Syrian-based Jabhat al-Nusra into Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant as was declared in April by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Abu Mohammad al-Julani, leader of al-Nusra Front, affirmed the group's allegiance to al-Qaeda and al-Zawahiri.
In September 2015, Zawahiri urged Islamic State (ISIL) to stop fighting al-Nusra Front, the official al-Qaeda affiliate in Syria,
Ayman al-Zawahiri released a statement supporting jihad in Xinjiang against Chinese, jihad in the Caucasus against the Russians and naming Somalia, Yemen, Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan as battlegrounds.
The Uyghurs East Turkestan independence movement was endorsed in the serial "Islamic Spring"'s 9th release by Al-Zawahiri. Zawahiri confirmed that the Afghanistan war after 9/11 included the participation of Uighurs and that the jihadists like Zarwaqi, Bin Ladin and the Uyghur Hasan Mahsum were provided with refuge together in Afghanistan under Taliban rule.
Dogu Türkistan Bülteni Haber Ajansi reported that the Uyghur Turkistan Islamic Party was praised by Abu Qatada along with Abdul Razzaq al Mahdi, Maqdisi, Muhaysini and Zawahiri.  
Abu Muhammad al-Maqdisi and Abu Qatada were referenced by Muhaysini. Al-Qaeda leaders Osama bin Laden and Ayman al Zawahiri were lauded by Muhaysini.
Presently, the Rewards for Justice Program of the U.S. Department of State is offering a reward of up to United States dollar|US$25 million for information about his location., Rewards for Justice Program, US Department of State. 
* Muslim Brotherhood at age 14
* Last Emir of Egyptian Islamic Jihad
* Cairo University Alumni
* Taliban
* Red Crescent Movement
In a lengthy treatise titled "Loyalty and Enmity", Zawahiri argues that Muslims must at all times be loyal to Islam and to one another, while hating or at least being clean from everything and everyone outside of Islam.
Zawahiri has said in an interview that the group does not have women combatants and that a woman's role is limited to caring for the homes and children of al-Qaeda fighters. This resulted in a debate regarding the role of mujahid women like Sajida Mubarak Atrous al-Rishawi.Frayer, Lauren.  ''Associated Press'' at ''ABC News''. May 31, 2008. Retrieved on July 17, 2011.
Zawahiri places supreme importance on winning public support, and castigated Abu Musab al-Zarqawi in this regard: "In the absence of this popular support the Islamic mujahid movement would be crushed in the shadows."
* May 2003: Tape was broadcast by al-Jazeera and included the directives (interpreted) "Raze/Singe the floor out from under their feet ... the political and corporate interests of the United States ... and Norway", which caused a global lockdown and extensive confusion for Norway.
* Early September 2003: A video showing al-Zawahiri and bin Laden walking together, as well as an audiotape, is released to the al-Jazeera network.
* September 9, 2004: Another video is released announcing more assaults.
* August 4, 2005: al-Zawahiri issues a televised statement blaming Tony Blair and his government's foreign policy for the July 2005 London bombings.
* September 1, 2005: al-Jazeera broadcasts a video message from Mohammed Sidique Khan, one of bombers of the London Underground. His message is followed by another message from al-Zawahiri, blaming again Tony Blair for the 7/7 bombings.
* September 19, 2005: al-Zawahiri claims responsibility for the London bombings and dismisses U.S. efforts in Afghanistan.
* December 7, 2005: The full 40-minute interview from September is posted on the Internet with previously unseen video footage. See below for links.
* April 3, 2008: al-Zawahiri said that al-Qaeda doesn't kill innocents and that its [former] leader Osama bin Laden is healthy. The questions asked his views about Egypt and Iraq, as well as Hamas.
* April 22, 2008: An audio interview in which, among other subjects, al-Zawahiri attacks the Shiite Iran and Hezbollah for blaming the September 11 attacks|9/11 attacks on Israel, and thus discrediting al-Qaeda.
* On the 7th anniversary of the attacks of September 11, 2001, al-Zawahiri released a 90-minute tape, in which he blasted "the guardian of Muslims in Tehran" for "the two hireling governments" in Iraq and Afghanistan.
* January 7, 2009: An audio message released, where al-Zawahiri vows revenge for Israel's air and ground assault on Gaza and calls the Jewish state's actions against Hamas militants "a gift" from U.S. President-elect Barack Obama for the recent uprising conflict in Gaza.
* June 2, 2009: Audio messages claiming that Barack Obama is not welcome in Egypt.
* July 15, 2009: al-Zawahiri urges Pakistanis to support the Taliban.
* October 4, 2009: ''The New York Times'' reported that al-Zawahiri had asserted that Libya had tortured Ibn Al Sheikh Al Libi to death.
 Al Libi was a key source the George W. Bush Presidency had claimed established that Iraq had provided training to al-Qaeda in Iraq's Weapons of Mass Destruction.
* December 14, 2009: In an audio recording released on December 14, 2009, al-Zawahiri renewed calls to establish an Islamic state in Israel and urged his followers to "seek jihad against Jews" and their supporters. He also called for jihad against America and the West, and labeled Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak, King Abdullah II of Jordan, and King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz of Saudi Arabia as the "brothers of Satan".Anti-Defamation League:  December 17, 2009
* June 8, 2011: al-Zawahiri released his first video since the death of Osama bin Laden, praising bin Laden and warning the U.S. of reprisal attacks, but without staking a claim on the leadership of al-Qaeda. - Washington Post, June 9, 2011
* September 3, 2014: In a 55-minute-long video, al-Zawahiri announced the formation of a new wing called al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), which would wage jihad "to liberate its land, to restore its sovereignty, and to revive its Caliphate."
* In late August, 2016: A Jihadi website released series of sermons by al-Zawahiri regarding Jihad.
In mid-December 2007, al-Zawahiri's spokespeople announced plans for an "open interview" on a handful of Islamic Web sites. The administrators of 4 known jihadist web sites have been authorized to collect and forward questions, "unedited", they pledge, and "regardless of whether they are in support of or are against" al-Qaeda, which would be forwarded to al-Zawahiri on January 16. al-Zawahiri responded to the questions later in 2008; among the things he said were that al-Qaeda didn't kill innocents, and that al-Qaeda would move to target Israel "after expelling the occupier from Iraq". IHS, May 2, 2008 archived on March 26, 2009, from 
* Knights Under the Prophet's Banner
* Co-Author of Fatawa of Osama bin Laden (1998)
* World Islamic Front Statement (1998)
*Egyptian Islamic Jihad
*FBI Most Wanted Terrorists
*Sayyed Imam Al-Sharif
*Messages of Ayman al-Zawahiri
*Messages of Osama bin Laden
*Operation Gladio B
*Cartoon Wars Part II (South Park)
* Kepel, Gilles; & Jean-Pierre Milelli (2010), ''Al Qaeda in its own words'', Harvard University Press, Cambridge & London, ISBN 978-0-674-02804-3.
* Mansfield, Laura (2006), ''His Own Words: A Translation of the Writings of Dr. Ayman Al Zawahiri'', Lulu Pub.
* al-Zawahiri, Ayman, ''L'absolution'', Milelli, Villepreux, ISBN 978-2-916590-05-9 (French translation of Al-Zawahiri's latest book).
* Ibrahim, Raymond (2007), ''The Al Qaeda Reader'', Broadway Books, ISBN 978-0-7679-2262-3.
*
*
*Counter Extremism Project 
*http://www.longwarjournal.org/tags/ayman-al-zawahiri
*http://www.longwarjournal.org/tags/ayman-al-zawahiri/page/2
*http://www.longwarjournal.org/tags/ayman-al-zawahiri/page/3
;Statements and interviews
* , ''MEMRI''
*
*, copy at GlobalSecurity.org
;Articles
*, Lawrence Wright, ''The New Yorker'', 16 September 2002
*, ''CNN'', January 2006
'''Iyad Ag Ghaly''' (
Iyad Ag Ghaly was born in 1954, into a noble family of the ''Ifogha'' tribal group (an influential ''Tuareg'' clan in the Kidal region
On the night of 28 June 1990, Iyad ag Ghaly directed attacks by the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Azawad (MPLA) on Tidermèn and Menaka that killed 18, including at least four Malian Army soldiers. These evening raids began a Tuareg Rebellion (1990-1995)|Tuareg rebellion in Mali. Ag Ghaly was reportedly escorted to Bamako, Mali's southern capital, after signing the accords. As a result of his perceived closeness to the "traditional hierarchy", according to one analyst, ag Ghaly was unable to hold together the MPLA after signing the controversial agreement, though ultimately a History of Mali#Transition to multiparty democracy|coup in March 1991 overturned the Accords and fighting went on.
By 1995, Radio France Internationale referred to ag Ghaly as the "undisputed leader" of the Tuareg rebel movement. After the 1996 ceasefire, ag Ghaly normalised relations with the Malian government. In 2003, he was instrumental in negotiating the release of 14 German tourist hostages from Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, then called "the Algerian Salafi Group for Call and Combat". WikiLeaks later released a U.S. State Department cable in which the author described Ag Ghaly as a "proverbial bad penny" who always turned up when a Western government had to give money to Tuaregs.
Ag Ghaly was appointed as a member of Mali's diplomatic staff in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, by President Amadou Toumani Touré in 2008. Once "a great fan of cigarettes, booze, and partying", interested in music and poetry, with connections to the Tuareg band Tinariwen, he was proselytised to strict Islam by the Tablighi Jamaat missionary movement.
In late 2011, ag Ghaly attempted to assume the leadership of the Tuareg group Kel Adagh, but failed.
Unable to take a leadership role with the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad (MNLA), the mainstream Tuareg rebellion,  ag Ghaly announced the formation of the Islamist Ansar Dine, which he claimed controlled much of northeastern Mali, in a video statement. Ag Ghaly also stated that his fighters were responsible for a bloody attack on the commune of Aguelhok two months before. He said the group would continue to fight until ''sharia'' law was established throughout Mali. The announcement created friction with the MNLA, a secular group fighting for Azawad's independence from Mali, including former allies of ag Ghaly who urged him to break his rumoured ties to Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. When ag Ghaly reportedly refused to disavow any association with the al Qaeda offshoot, the MNLA branded him a "criminal" and issued a statement claiming the "theocratic regime" envisioned by ag Ghaly contradicted "the foundations of [Tuareg] culture and civilization". Although ag Ghaly's militants appeared to coordinate with the MNLA in the capture of Kidal, the Associated Press reported that the day after it fell to rebel fighters, Ansar Dine militants removed the colorful flags of Azawad planted by their MNLA comrades-in-arms throughout the city.
Jeremy Keenan, a professor at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London, stated that the military contribution of ag Ghaly's fighters was slight compared to the much larger MNLA: "What seems to happen is that when they move into a town, the MNLA take out the military base - not that there's much resistance - and Iyad goes into town and puts up his flag and starts bossing everyone around about sharia law."
On 3 April, ag Ghaly gave a radio interview in Timbuktu announcing that Sharia law would be enforced in the city, including the veiling of women, the stoning of adulterers, and the punitive mutilation of thieves. According to Timbuktu's mayor, the announcement caused nearly all of Timbuktu's Christian population to flee the city.
On February 26, 2013, the U.S. Department of State designated Ag Ghaly as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist.
In March 2 2017, Ghaly pledged his oath of allegiance to Ayman al-Zawahiri, and formed the Jama'at Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen.http://www.ani.mr/?q=node/5908
'''Rustam Asildarov (Aselderov)''' (9 March 1981 - 3 December 2016), also known as '''Emir Abu Muhammad Kadarsky''', was the leader of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant - Caucasus Province|North Caucasus branch, and a former leader of the militant Caucasus Emirate|Caucasus Emirate's Vilayat Dagestan wing.
Asildarov grew up in the Kadar region of the Buynaksky District in Russia's republic of Dagestan. During the late 1990s, the area became a regional center of Salafism and had de facto independence, before military operations in September 1999 brought it back under the control of the Russian state.
 
Asildarov became the leader of Vilayat Dagestan's Central Sector in May 2010,
In December 2014, a video clip of Asildarov was posted online, in which he retracted his Bay'ah|oath of allegiance to Umarov's successor, Aliaskhab Kebekov, and pledged loyalty to Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Kebekov responded days later with a video, in which he condemned Asildarov's "betrayal" and appointed Said Kharakansky as the new leader of Vilayat Dagestan.
In an audio statement on 23 June 2015, ISIL's spokesman, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, accepted pledges of allegiance to the group made by North Caucasus militants, and announced the creation of a new Wilayat or Province covering the region. Adnani declared the leader of this new branch to be Abu Muhammad al-Qadari, a pseudonym of Asildarov.
On 29 September 2015, the United States Department of State added Asildarov to its list of Specially Designated Global Terrorists.
On 3 December 2016, the FSB claimed that Asildarov and four close associates were killed in an anti-terror raid near Makhachkala, Dagestan.
'''Mahfouz Ould al-Walid''' (Arabic: ?????  ??? ??????), kunya '''Abu Hafs al-Mauritani''', is a Mauritanian Islamic scholar and poet previously associated with al-Qaeda. A veteran of the Soviet war in Afghanistan, he ran a religious school called the College of Islamic and Arabic Studies, Afghanistan|Institute of Islamic Studies in Kandahar, Afghanistan, from the late 1990s until the American invasion of Afghanistan in 2001. Al-Walid was on the shura council of al-Qaeda and was the head of the sharia committee. 
Along with Mustafa Hamid, Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah, Saeed al-Masri and Saif al-Adel, al-Walid opposed the September 11 attacks two months prior to their execution. Under interrogation, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed said that al-Walid had opposed any large-scale attack against the United States and wrote Bin Laden a stern letter warning against any such action, quoting the Quran.
Al-Walid fled from Afghanistan to Iran after the American invasion and was held there under house arrest from 2003 until April 2012. At that time, Iran extradited him to Mauritania, where he was held in prison until his release on July 7, 2012. He was released after renouncing his ties to al-Qaeda and condemning the September 11 attacks.
The publisher of the magazine ''Al-Talib'' (''The Student''), al-Walid wrote poetry that attracted the attention of Osama bin Laden, and was invited to give spiritual lectures to mujahideen at Afghan training camps. Some time in late 2000 or early 2001, bin Laden was videotaped reciting al-Walid's poem "Thoughts Over al-Aqsa Intifadah".IntelCenter, "Know Thy Enemy", DVD Series, volume 28
It was later suggested that he had traveled to Iraq in early 1998 in an attempt to meet with Saddam Hussein, but was turned away as the leader did not want to create problems for his country.Senate Intelligence Committee, 109th Congress, "Senate Report of Pre-war Intelligence on Iraq", p. 73-75
Later in 1998, the United States learned al-Walid was staying in Room 13 at the Dana Hotel in Khartoum, and President Bill Clinton sought to have him killed or preferably renditioned to a friendly country for interrogation. When a plan was finally made to capture him using another country's officials, he had already left Sudan.
 Al-Walid called by his kunya, Abu Hafs.
In 1998, Germany began monitoring Mohamedou Ould Slahi's accounts, and it was noticed that al-Walid had asked him to spare some money twice, resulting in a DM8,000 transfer in December and one other situation in which he sent him money. In January 1999, al-Walid telephoned Slahi using a monitored satellite phone he borrowed from Bin Laden.Department of Defense, "Administrative Review Board Hearing for Mohamedou Ould Slahi", p. 184-216 He was initially labeled as being the same person as Slahi by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, who amended their list in June 2007 to distinguish the two people. It was later suggested they were brother-in-law|brothers-in-law, cousins or cousins-in-law. The confusion seemed to stem from the fact that al-Walid's wife and Slahi's wife were sisters.
In mid-2000, al-Walid was approached by Ahmed al-Nami and Mushabib al-Hamlan who asked him about becoming suicide operatives.9-11 Commission Final Report, July 22, 2004
Ayman al-Zawahiri has credited al-Walid's book ''Islamic Action Between the Motives of Unit and the Advocates of Conflict'' as being one of the driving forces behind convincing al-Qaeda to merge with Egyptian Islamic Jihad in June 2001.
In November 2001, al-Walid became only the second al-Qaeda leader to give a public interview, in which he agreed with Osama bin Laden's earlier comments stating that the terrorist organization was not responsible for the 9/11|September 11th attacks. However, he said that other Islamic scholars had justified the attacks: "many clerics have issued clear religious rulings [in this matter] and explained them by means of the Koran and the Sunnah, and with the words of the clerics of the [Islamic] nation, and have proved that if this act was carried out by Mujahedeen Muslims, then it was an unblemished act of Jihad." 
It is believed that the American invasion of Afghanistan following the September 11 attacks by Bin Laden actually drove al-Walid away from al-Qaeda, and that he and a number of other discontent former members moved to the south to avoid connection with the ongoing fight. 
The United States accused him of entering Iraq again in an attempt to get Hussein to negotiate, but state that he was rebuffed in identical terms as his first visit. He was reported killed twice, the second time following a January 8, 2002 airstrike in Zawar Kili, outside of Khost.Vider, Manuel. "Understanding Terror", p. 15
When Shadi Abdellah was arrested in 2002, he cooperated with authorities, but suggested that Abu Musab al-Zarqawi and Osama bin Laden were not as closely linked as previously believed, in large part because al-Zarqawi disagreed with many of the sentiments put forward by al-Walid for al-Qaeda.Bergen, Peter. "The Osama bin Laden I know", 2006. p. 359-422
Zawahiri continues to speak positively of the role al-Walid played in encouraging Pan-Islamism|Pan-Islamic peace and cooperation.
Libyan Islamist Nomam Benotman also indicated in a letter to Bin Laden that he, al-Walid and Al Qaeda security official Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah|Abu Muhammad al-Zayat opposed the 9/11 attacks.
In the 2008 Chilean book ''El Norte de Africa en la Intriga de al Qaeda'', author Carlos Saldivia suggested that al-Walid was also involved in the 2003 Casablanca bombings.Saldivia, Carlos. "El Norte de Africa en la Intriga de Al Qaeda", 2008. p. 207.
}}
*  
* 
}}
'''Mohammed Salah al-Din Zaidan''', known as '''Saif al-Adel''' ( for his part in the 1998 United States embassy bombings in Kenya.
According to the indictment, Adel is a member of the ''majlis al shura'' of al-Qaeda and a member of its military committee. He has provided military and intelligence training to members of al-Qaeda and Egyptian Islamic Jihad in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Sudan, and to anti-UN Somali tribes. It is possible that his trainees included the Somalis of the first Battle of Mogadishu. He established the al-Qaeda training facility at Ras Kamboni in Somalia near the Kenyan border.
Adel was accused of being involved with Egyptian Islamic Jihad and attempting to overthrow the Egyptian government in 1987. After the charges were dismissed, he left the country in 1988 to join the mujahideen in repelling the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. He is believed to have traveled to southern Lebanon along with Abu Talha al-Sudani, Sayful Islam al-Masri, Abu Ja`far al-Masri, and Abu Salim al-Masri, where he trained alongside Hezbollah Al-Hejaz.
In Khartoum, Sudan, Adel taught recruited militants how to handle explosives.Jamal al-Fadl testimony, United States vs. Osama bin Laden et al., s:United States of America v. Usama bin Laden/Day 2 6 February 2001|trial transcript, Day 2, February 6, 2001. Along with Saeed al-Masri and Mahfouz Ould al-Walid, he is believed to have opposed the September 11 attacks two months prior to their execution.9/11 Commission, p. 251
Married to the daughter of Mustafa Hamid, they have five children.
Since 2011, he has been connected with the kidnapping of the journalist Daniel Pearl in 2002.
It was originally believed that his real name was Mohammed Ibrahim Makkawi. However, on 29 February 2012, Egyptian authorities arrested a man by that name at Cairo International Airport and it was discovered that he was not Adel. The FBI continues to list Makkawi and not Zaidan on its Most Wanted poster.
The Egyptian military has yet to release his files, but it is believed that Saif al-Adel (which translates to "Sword of Justice") is a pseudonym. His real name is thought to be '''Mohammed Salah al-Din Zaidan'''. Adel would later join Bin Laden in Sudan after 1994.
Several months before the 1998 embassy bombings, Adel was helping Osama bin Laden move his followers from Najim Jihad to Tarnak Farms. The group had begrudgingly agreed to care for the troublesome Canadian 16-year-old, Abdurahman Khadr, since his father was away and his mother couldn't control his drinking, smoking and violent outbursts. However, while they were in Kabul, bin Laden asked Adel to take Abdurahman to the bus station and send him back to his family's home.
In approximately 2000, Adel was living in the Karte Parwan district of Kabul. On the local walkie-talkie communications in the city, he was identified as #1.
In early November 2001, the Taliban government announced they were bestowing official Afghan citizenship on Adel, as well as Bin Laden, Zawahiri, Mohammed Atef, and Shaykh Asim Abdulrahman.''The Hindu,'' , November 9, 2001 During the American bombardment of Kandahar, Adel was present and witnessed the deaths of  Abu-Ali al-Yafi'i and his wife, Abu-Usamah al-Ta'zi with his wife and two children, the wife of Rayyan al-Ta'zi, the wife of Abu-Usamah al-Kini, and the wife of Al-Barra al-Hijazi who was arrested in Morocco before the Casablanca bombings.
On 18 November, Adel was working with Abu-Muhammad al-Abyad, Abd-al-Rahman al-Masri, and Abu-Usamah al-Filastini, Abu-Husayn al-Masri and Faruq al-Suri; all of whom were staying in his empty house with him at night. In the early morning hours of 19 November, he woke them up just minutes before the Al Wafa al Igatha al Islamia|al-Wafa charity building was bombed. Phoning friends in the area, he learned that Abdul Wahid had been killed in the explosion. He later learned that Asim al-Yamani, from Al Farouq training camp, and the elderly Abu-Abd-al-Rahman Al-Abiy had run to the charity's headquarters and begun rescuing survivors and pulling out the dead bodies. The pair agreed the area was not safe, and sent their women to the smaller villages, while they used their two cars to try and pack up their house's contents. An American jet bombed the pair, killing al-Yamani and wounding al-Abiy.
As it was the third day of Ramadan, the group in Adel's house began to prepare and eat Suhoor, but were interrupted by a cruise missile striking 100 metres away, destroying an empty house belonging to an Afghan Arab family, and a Taliban barracks. They gathered their belongings and quickly left, fearing another strike. Adel went to the hospital, where he visited the wounded al-Abiy, and arranged for him to be transferred to a hospital in Pakistan.
After Adel was told by Abu Ali al-Suri that the American aircraft had machinegunned women leaving the city on the road to Banjway, Adel said that he would send aid. A convoy of 4-6 Corolla Fielders set out to Banjway, followed closely by American helicopters. The Americans attacked the lead vehicle, killing Abu-Ali al-Yafi'i, his wife, four women, and two children, and the second vehicle, killing Suraqah al-Yamani and Hamzah al-Suri. Abu-Ali al-Maliki quickly veered off the road with the third vehicle, turning off his headlights, and drove into the mountains, escaping the attack.
Since al-Qaeda's military chief Mohammed Atef was killed in 2001, journalists reported that Adel was likely his successor in that role.
Al-Adel and Saad Bin Laden are believed to have ordered the Riyadh attacks from Iran. In 2004, he published a "terrorist manual" entitled ''The Base of the Vanguard'', an Arabic pun on the phrases ''al-Qaeda'' ("the base") and the Vanguards of Conquest.
Al-Adel was a key source in a 2005 book on al-Qaeda's global strategy by the journalist Fouad Hussein.
Al-Adel is a leader of al-Qaeda in Iran, according to American security expert Seth Jones.
Adel has been on the FBI's list of Most Wanted Terrorists since its inception in 2001. The United States Department of State|State Department's Rewards for Justice Program is offering up to US$5 million for information on his location., Rewards for Justice, US Department of State
There has been speculation that Adel fled Afghanistan to Iran and was detained under house arrest near Tehran. Later reports indicated that he was released by Iran in March 2010 in exchange for the release of Heshmatollah Attarzadeh, an Iranian diplomat kidnapped in November 2008,, MSNBC, 24 June 2005 Although Mahfouz Ould al-Walid was reported killed in a January 2002 American airstrike, it was later revealed that he fled to Iran with Adel.Bower, Amanda. ''TIME,'' , September 9, 2002
In October 2010, ''Der Spiegel'' reported that Adel was in the Waziristan region in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas between Northwest Frontier Province, Pakistan and Afghanistan.
In July 2011, it was reported that Adel returned to Iran.
However, according to an interrogation of former al-Qaeda spokesman Sulaiman Abu Ghaith, al-Adel never left Iran and was still under house arrest when Ghaith was captured in 2013.http://kronosadvisory.com/Kronos_US_v_Sulaiman_Abu_Ghayth_Statement.1.pdf
On September 20, 2015, ''Al Arabiya'' reported that al-Adel, and four other captives, were part of a prisoner exchange Iranian authorities made with Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, in Yemen.
On March 16, 2016, a Twitter account affiliated with al-Qaeda implicated al-Adel as having been sent to aid against the Russian intervention in the Syrian Civil War.
	 	
In February 2006, the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point published a number of declassified documents from the Harmony database, some of which are known or believed to have been written by Saif al-Adel. One is a letter signed "Omar al-Sumali, previously known as Saif al-Adel", about the author's activities in southern Somalia during UNOSOM II (1993-1995). It identifies Ras Kamboni as a suitable site for an al-Qaeda base. It mentions an accomplice of Adel called "Mukhtar".
In a letter from "'Abd-al-Halim Adl'" to "'Mukhtar'", dated 13 June 2002, the author strongly criticises the leadership of Osama bin Laden, blaming the defeats of the preceding six months for al-Qaeda on bin Laden's recklessness and unwillingness to listen to advice:
	
If someone opposes [bin Ladin], he immediately puts forward another person to render an opinion in his support, clinging to his opinion and totally disregarding those around him...
	 	
Perhaps, brother Abu Mattar has warned you that his opinion [of bin Ladin's leadership] has changed a lot since he got out of his previous situation. 	
From the following section, the 2002 addressee, "'Mukhtar'" appears to be Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the commander of the September 11, 2001 attacks:
	
	
"The East Asia, Europe, America, Horn of Africa, Yemen, Gulf, and Morocco groups have fallen, and Pakistan has almost been drowned in one push. I, not to mention the other individuals who have also moved and fallen, have often advised on this matter. Regrettably, my brother, if you look back, you will find that you are the person solely responsible for all this because you undertook the mission, and during six months, we only lost what we built in years."	
In 2004, Adel was alleged to be the author of ''The Al-Battar Military Camp'', a manual that advised prospective militants about how to strike easy targets.''National Post,'' "Al-Qaeda Urges Attacks On Canadians: Instructions In Manual: Advises Hitting 'Easy Targets That Are Not Protected'", March 31, 2004
On 11 March 2005, Al-Quds Al-Arabi published extracts from Adel's document, "Al Quaeda's Strategy to the Year 2020".
In March 2007, the Pentagon posted on the Internet a transcript, US Department of Defense of part of the hearing into the combatant status of detainee Ramzi bin al-Shibh. Some of the evidence against bin al-Shibh came from a diary of Saif al-Adel found in Saudi Arabia in 2004.
The CSRT document described al-Adel by the following:
Sayf al-Adel is a senior al Qaida military commander with a long-term relationship with Usama bin Laden. Sayf al-Adel's role in the organization has been as a trainer, military leader, and key member of Usama bin Laden's security detail.The diary of Sayf al-Adel was recovered during a raid in Saudi Arabia in 2004. The diary details the Detainee's involvement in the 11 September 2001 terrorist plot and subsequent attack.
In addition, the paragraph continued:
The Detainee is listed as a "highly professional jihadist" along with "9/11 hijackers", Mohammed Atta and Ziad Jarrah. The diary states that the three were briefed on an operation involving aircraft by Abu Hafs, a senior al Qaida planner.
In December 2010, Adel allegedly sent a series of five lettersBrown, Valid (10 February 2011).  ''Jihadica''.Hamid, Mustafa  to Abu Walid al Masri, then under house arrest in Iran. He discusses the War in Afghanistan (2001-present)|War in Afghanistan, criticises the religious failings of the mujahidin and hypocrisy of Islamic scholars, and the failure of the Jihadist movement to learn from previous mistakes. Al Masri posted the letters on the Internet in December 2010. In March 2011, Adel allegedly released another five letters through al Masri,Hamid, Mustafa Farrall, Leah (24 March 2011).  which covered the Arab Spring uprisings.
In August 2015, a eulogy written by al-Adel for Abu Khalid al Suri, an al-Qaeda veteran who served as both a senior figure in the Syrian opposition group Ahrar al-Sham and as Ayman al Zawahiri's representative in Syria, was released. In the eulogy he criticized the Islamic State and described them as having as having "twisted" and "perverted" thoughts.
 
}}
*
'''Tarad Muhammad al-Jarba''' (born November 20, 1979), better known by his kunya '''Abu Muhammad al-Shimali''', is an Iraqi-born citizen of Saudi Arabia and a senior leader of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). He is the subject of a $5,000,000 bounty by the Rewards for Justice Program.
Abu Muhammad al-Shimali joined Al-Qaeda in Iraq in 2005, continuing his association with the group when it became ISIL.
According to the United States Department of State Rewards for Justice Program, "he now serves as a key leader in ISIL's Immigration and Logistics Committee, and is responsible for facilitating the travel of foreign terrorist fighters primarily through Gaziantep, Turkey, and onward to the ISIL-controlled border town of Jarabulus, Syria. Al-Shimali and the Immigration and Logistics Committee coordinate smuggling activities, financial transfers, and the movement of logistics into Syria and Iraq from Europe, North Africa, and the Arabian Peninsula".
On September 29, 2015, the U.S. Department of the Treasury placed al-Shimali on its Specially Designated Nationals list for acting for or on behalf of ISIL. The designation blocks his financial assets and prohibits U.S. persons and financial institutions from dealing with him.  On the same day, he was also listed on the United Nations Security Council 1267/1989 (Al-Qaida) Sanctions List, which imposes a travel ban, asset freeze, and arms embargo on Al-Shimali. Al-Shimali is also the subject of an active INTERPOL-UN Special Notice (in the name of Tarad Mohammad Aljarba), which is issued to alert law enforcement agencies worldwide that an individual or entity is subject to UN sanctions.
According to ''The Telegraph'' he may have played a role in the November 2015 Paris attacks due to his position in managing the flow of fighters across the Syria-Turkey border.
'''Ibrahim Hassan Tali al-Asiri''' (born April 18, 1982) is a citizen of Saudi Arabia suspected of being chief bomb-maker of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.
He was reported to have been responsible for making the bombs used by his brother Abdullah al-Asiri in his suicide bombing, the 2009 Christmas Day bomb plot, the 2010 cargo plane bomb plot, and the May 8th 2012 Terror Plot.
Little is known about al-Asiri's early life; he was born in 1982 into a religious and military family in Riyadh with four brothers and three sisters.
The ''Saudi Gazette'' reported that Ibrahim had been imprisoned and released. His imprisonment was a result of an attempt to enter Iraq to join Islamist insurgents. He reportedly left Saudi Arabia for Yemen together with his brother Abdullah al-Asiri - whom he had recruited to al-Qaeda - to join up with al-Qaeda members.
On February 3, 2009, Ibrahim and Abdullah were named on a list of Saudi Arabia's most wanted terrorist suspects.
The list published by the Government of Saudi Arabia listed 85 individuals, 83 of whom were Saudis, and 2 were from Yemen.
On August 27, 2009, Abdullah blew himself up in the Jeddah office of security chief Mohammed bin Nayef, after posing as a repentant militant.
 Abdullah, who had been recruited by Ibrahim as a suicide bomber, used a PETN bomb that his brother had hidden in his rectum. Abdullah died in the attempt, but Nayef survived with minor injuries.
Ibrahim is suspected of being the main explosives expert for Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and the bombmaker responsible for building the bombs in the 2010 cargo plane bomb plot.
In May 2012, American security officials leaked their acquisition of a document describing how to prepare and use liquid explosive implants -- surgically implanted improvised explosive devices.
The implants would contain no metal parts, making them virtually undetectable by X-rays.  Al-Asiri was reported to have been responsible for the development of the new weapon.  
Al-Asiri had been reported as possibly killed in a drone strike together with other AQAP suspects, among whom was the American-Yemeni cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, during the month of September 2011., CBS News, September 30, 2011 However a Yemeni official denied that al-Asiri was killed., Associated Press in ''Washington Post'', October 2, 2011
On August 13, 2013, it was reported that Al-Asiri may have been seriously wounded in a drone strike which occurred on August 10, though the reports were never confirmed.
Al-Asiri was thought to have possibly been killed in a firefight on April 20, 2014. Yemeni troops recovered bodies to run DNA tests, but the tests were not a match., Mohammed Jamjoom and Barbara Starr, CNN, April 22, 2014, Paul Cruickshank, Mohammed Jamjoom and Nic Robertson, CNN, April 28, 2014
As of 2016, Al-Asiri has appeared in a video making references to Saudi Arabia's recent executions of al-Qaeda militants, so he is still alive. 
On 24 March 2011, al-Asiri was added to the U.S. list of terrorists. He is wanted by the government of Saudi Arabia and is the subject of an Interpol Orange Notice., U.S. Department of State, 24 March 2011, ''AP'', ''Chicago Tribune'', 24 March 2011
Al-Asiri's father is a retired soldier. He has three sisters and, now, two surviving brothers.
*Nizar Rayan, who successfully recruited his own son for a suicide bombing mission
*, U.S. Department of State, 24 March 2011
}}
'''Abu Hamza al-Zinjibari'''(born, Jalal Belaidi) was a commander of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) in Abyan and the rest of southern Yemen. The United States offered a bounty of 5 million US dollars in his head.
Its believed, that Hamza was born during the late 70s, in the Al Wade'a District, Abyan Governorate. Reports indicate that he was a Football player, playing in the position of the Goalkeeper in the local team. Residents from his hometown said, that he worked as a baker in his youth, and that he was a nice and pleasant person. During the wake of Yemeni Revolution, Hamza taken command of AQAP fighters in Abyan, and commanded their forces in Battle of Zinjibar and the Battle of Lawdar. He also commanded his troops in Dofas and served as supreme Emir of AQAP in Abyan province. In August of 2014, he leaded an operation in which he captured and executed by beheading 14 government soldiers.https://jamestown.org/program/al-qaeda-in-the-arabian-peninsula-sets-assassins-loose-in-strategic-shift/http://www.yementimes.com/en/1807/news/4202/Who-is-Jalal-Baleedi.htm
As of March 2015, the Houthi forces had captured most of Abyan in the wake of Yemeni civil war (2015-present)|Yemeni civil war. The Hadi loyalists formed a coalition included AQAP to Abyan campaign (March-August 2015)|recapture Abyan from Houthis. The coalition succeeded its goal, with the AQAP returning in the scene of southern Yemen by the April of the same year.
}}
'''Shawki al-Badani''' was a U.S Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT). Al-Badani was the Emir of al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) in the Al-Bayda region. In 2012, al-Badani assigned an AQAP fighter to target the U.S. embassy in Sanaa for attacks. He also has been described as being connected to a suicide bomber who killed over 100 Yemeni soldiers in a May 2012 attack. He also played a key role in a plan for a major attack in the summer of 2013 that led the United States to close 19 diplomatic posts across the Middle East and Africa. Al-Badani was on Yemeni list of most wanted suspected terrorists|Yemen's Most Wanted list and the Yemeni government has offered a $100,000 reward for anyone who can offer information about him, describing him as one of "the most dangerous terrorists affiliated with al-Qaida." The US Department of State was also offering a $5 million reward for information that helped to capture him.https://atfp.org/adopt/terrorist/shawki-ali-ahmed-al-badani/https://www.state.gov/j/ct/rls/other/des/266555.htm  In 12 of December 2013, a US drone strike killed 12 and injured 14 others in a wedding party, targeting al-Badani, but did not succeed into killing him, and the terrorist escaped only wounded by the attack.https://www.rt.com/news/investigation-wedding-yemen-drone-298/http://world.time.com/2013/12/20/u-s-officials-drone-strike-that-hit-yemen-wedding-convoy-killed-militants-not-civilians/http://www.aljazeera.com/news/middleeast/2013/12/yemen-drone-strike-targeted-al-qaeda-leader-20131220192937914455.html About a year later, in November 3, 2014, an unidentified drone strike killed Badani, alongside another commander of al-Bayda province, Nabil al-Dahab, in the Rada'a District. AQAP later issued a statement acknowledging their commanders death, and accused US and Houthis for the drone strikes.http://www.reuters.com/article/us-yemen-drones-alqaeda-idUSKBN0IP0GD20141105http://edition.cnn.com/2014/11/05/world/meast/yemen-violence/http://www.longwarjournal.org/archives/2014/11/wanted_aqap_leader_i.php One day later, AQAP forces battled Houthi forces in Rada'a, killing at least 10 Houthis. In retaliation, a suspected US drone strike killed some 10-20 Al-Qaeda, among two AQAP chief bombmakers, Ayyash al Eid and Ahmad Jarallah.http://www.longwarjournal.org/archives/2014/11/us_drone_strike_kill_33.phphttp://barakish.net/news02.aspx?cat=12&sub=23&id=224748http://barakish.net/news02.aspx?cat=12&sub=23&id=224750http://ca.reuters.com/article/topNews/idCAKBN0IO0ZW20141104
}}
'''Ali bin Saeed bin Jamil al-Abyani''', was a veteran AQAP commander, who served Al-Qaeda from its early beginnings in Yemen, when it was still Islamic Jihad of Yemen.
Al-Abyani was a native of Ma'rib. He joined Qaeda in 2007, and received training in an AQAP camp, in Al Mahfad District, Abyan Governorate. In January 2009, he became AQAP's first supreme commander in Ma'rib Governorate, and holded the post until August 2010, when he deployed in Abyan, to be the Emir of Lawdar. He commanded his troops during the AQAP's defeat in Lawdar. In February  2011, during the wake of Yemeni Revolution, hi again redeployed from Lawdar to be the Emir of Zinjibar, in were he fought in the major Battle of Zinjibar.http://www.slideshare.net/CriticalThreats/aqap-mid-level-leadership-slide-deck In June  2011, redeployed again to be the first AQAP's Emir for Al Bayda Governorate, in which hi killed by a U.S drone strike in July of the same year. AQAP later released  his biography praising him for his deeds.http://www.criticalthreats.org/gulf-aden-security-review/gulf-aden-security-review-march-26-2012https://news.siteintelgroup.com/Jihadist-News/aqap-video-focuses-on-slain-official-muwahhid-al-maribi.htmlhttps://news.siteintelgroup.com/Jihadist-News/aqap-releases-biography-of-slain-official-muwahhid-al-maribi.html
'''Wafa al Bass''' ('''Wafa al-Biss''', b. 1984) is a Palestinian Arab resident of Gaza who was permitted to enter Israel for the purpose of being treated at an Israeli hospital in 2005. She wore a suicide bomb vest which she attempted to explode as she crossed into Israel via the Erez Crossing.
Al Bass had been given permission to enter Israel to receive hospital treatment for severe burns. Guards at the crossing became suspicious and discovered that under her traditional black robes she had strapped a 22-pound bomb to her leg.
She was imprisoned for several years and released in the 2011 Gilad Shalit prisoner exchange.
Upon release from prison she immediately attained further notoriety by urging Gazans to "take another Shalit" every year until all convicted Arab terrorists held in Israeli prisons were freed.
*NBC News video  
'''Fatimah Omar Mahmoud Al-Najar''' (
She has seven sons and two daughters, 
She was a veteran Hamas supporter and sheltered fugitive militants during the first Palestinian uprising of 1987-1993. She is reported to have been the oldest Palestinian suicide bomber to date.
* "I hope God accepts it," 
* 
*
*
*
*
*
'''Sajida Mubarak Atrous al-Rishawi''' (
She and her husband Ali Hussein Ali al-Shamari are thought to have been Iraqi citizens and had Iraqi accents. According to her confession they traveled into Jordan about five days before the bombings on forged passports. She, along with her husband, entered the Amman Radisson Hotel ballroom during a wedding. When she had trouble detonating her suicide belt her husband pushed her out of the room before detonating a bomb that killed 38 people.
Al-Rishawi was later captured by Jordanian authorities and confessed on national television. She was shown making a filmed confession with an apparent suicide bomb device around her and a detonator in hand showing that the device failed to explode, but later retracted her confession. BBC News, 21 September 2006
She was convicted of possessing explosives and intending to commit a terrorist attack, and sentenced to death by hanging by a Jordanian military court on 21 September 2006. She appealed against this conviction but her appeal was dismissed in January 2007.
Al-Rishawi was reportedly the sister of a former close aide of deceased al-Qaeda in Iraq leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi,
On 24 January 2015, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) offered to trade Jordanian Pilot Muath Al-Kasasbeh|Muath al-Kasasbeh for Sajida al-Rishawi.
Al-Rishawi and Ziad Khalaf Raja al-Karbouly|Ziad Khalaf al-Karbouly were executed by hanging in the morning of 4 February 2015, which was expedited following the news of al-Kasasbeh's killing by ISIL.
*Female suicide bombers
*
* 
'''Ayat al-Akhras''' (died March 29, 2002) was the third and youngest Palestinian female suicide bomber who, at age 18 (some sources report her age to be as young as 16), killed herself and two Israeli civilians on March 29, 2002 by detonating explosives belted to her body.  The killings gained widespread international attention due to Ayat's age and gender and the fact that one of the victims was also a teenage girl.  The killings led U.S. President George W. Bush to observe: "When an 18-year-old Palestinian girl is induced to blow herself up and in the process kills a 17-year-old Israeli girl, the future itself is dying; the future of the Palestinian people and the future of the Israeli people."
Akhras was raised in the Deheishe Refugee Camp near Bethlehem, the daughter of Palestinian refugees who themselves grew up in a tent camp in the Gaza Strip. According to Newsweek journalist Joshua Hammer, Akhras's parents "fled from Arab villages near Tel Aviv at the end of the 1948 Arab-Israeli War. After Israel won the 1967 war and took control of Gaza, Akhras' parents migrated to the Dehaishe camp", described as "a maze of cinder-block buildings, refuse-strewn alleyways and open sewers". Akhras' father found employment with an Israeli construction firm and was able to build a three-story concrete house, where Akhras and her four brothers and six sisters were raised. Akhras was a straight-A student and had hopes of attending college and becoming a news reporter. In 2001 she became engaged and plans were made for a wedding in July 2002.
During the First Intifada which started in 1987, Akhras' oldest brother was jailed twice for attacking Israeli soldiers.  During the Al-Aqsa Intifada or Second Intifada which started in 2000, members of her family were wounded and killed by the Israel Defense Forces. On March 8, 2002, a close friend and neighbor of Akhras that was playing with his toddler was hit by a stray bullet fired by Israeli troops as they were on a counter-terrorism operation.http://connection.ebscohost.com/c/articles/6947200/why-did-ayat-al-akhras-become-suicide-bomber
These traumatic experiences may have influenced Akhras' attempts to join one of the Palestinian resistance groups.List of designated terrorist organizations However, Israeli intelligence reports indicate that Akhras was impregnated by a Fatah operative, despite being an unmarried teenager, and that the emotional and social consequences of her unplanned pregnancy were the primary reason she decided to commit a suicide attack.Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs, . 12 February 2002 Akhras first tried to join the ranks of Hamas, which turned her away because of a long-standing policy against allowing females to fight in physical combatcitation needed. Hamas, which has claimed responsibility for many suicide bombings in Israel says that the basis for this rule lies in teachings of the Qur'an that says Jihad is the domain of the male. Despite this, Hamas and the Palestine Islamic Jihad (which generally also only recruits males) have since each used female suicide bombers. In 2002, the spiritual leader of Hamas, Sheik Ahmed Yassin made a statement to the press after Akhras' bombing saying that the group would only use women after they ran out of men.
However, Akhras found a group that would accept her: the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades, a group linked to the armed branch of Fatah (Yasser Arafat's party), more secular than Hamas. The group already had experience, using at least three other women successfully in suicide bombings against Israel before Akhras. She was reportedly trained for several weeks before being sent to Kiryat Yovel, a south-western neighborhood of Jerusalem, to detonate in the supermarket. Before her attack, Akhras, like many other Palestinian suicide bombers, made a video in which she lashed out at the regimes and militaries of Muslim nations throughout the world. She said: "I say to the Arab leaders, stop sleeping. Stop failing to fulfill your duty. Shame on the Arab armies who are sitting and watching the girls of Palestine fight while they are asleep."
On March 29, 2002, Ayat al-Akhras was driven to the Kiryat HaYovel supermarket in Jerusalem by the recently recruited Tanzim member Ibrahim Sarahne, who had once worked in the supermarket. The neighborhood is home to a mostly young population, young couples, students at the Ein Kerem medical campus of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, professors and teachers. The two crossed an Israeli checkpoint with the bomb in a bag on the car floor at Akhras' feet.
In the aftermath of the bombing, Sarahne said that during the drive he suggested that he just throw the bomb, which would allow her to return home. Yet, she replied '''I'm not afraid. I want to kill people.' ''   Akhras detonated her explosives and killed two people: a 17-year-old Israeli girl named Rachel Levy and a 55-year-old security guard named Haim Smadar who had attempted to stop Akhras from entering the supermarket. Smadar's actions saved the lives of many, as Akhras would otherwise have exploded the device inside the supermarket.
On February 2014, Israeli returned the remains of Ayat to her family as part of prisoner swaps, enabling them to arrange her funeral.http://www.haaretz.com/news/diplomacy-defense/1.572061
The Al-Asqa Martyrs Brigade claimed responsibility in the press for the attack which the Israeli government denounced as an act of terrorism. The killings led then U.S. President George W. Bush to observe: "When an 18-year-old Palestinian girl is induced to blow herself up and in the process kills a 17-year-old Israeli girl, the future itself is dying, the future of the Palestinian people and the future of the Israeli people". The European Union condemned "firmly" the terror attack. The Saudi Ambassador to the UK, Dr Ghazi Abdul Rahman Algosaibi - a scholar and top politician in Saudi Arabia, wrote a poem in praise of al-Akhras, for which he was criticized by the UK and US governments, and among some Palestinians and Islamic militants, Akhras became a martyr (hero) figure, but the reaction among Akhras' family was mixed. , Jihad and Terroism Studies Project.
According to a Newsweek, Akhras' fiance did not approve of violence and would have stopped her if he had known her plan. "May God forgive her for what she has done," he reportedly said. Other members of Akhras' family, which were educated and moderate, condemned suicide bombings as morally wrong. However, they said that Israeli "brutality" had left Palestinians no other choice. In the 2007 documentary To Die in Jerusalem, Akhras' mother was confronted with the mother of 17 year-old Israeli victim of the bombing, Rachel Levy, but refused to denounce her daughter's action. 
''Prima di Lasciarsi'' (''Before We Say Goodbye'') by Gabriella Ambrosio is a novel based on Ayat al-Akras' story, published in Italy in 2004 by Nutrimenti and was awarded at the Festival du Premier Romance in Chambéry, France. In 2008 the book's publication in both in Arabic and Hebrew was sponsored by Amnesty International and employed by Israeli colleges and human rights organizations working in Israel and the Palestinian Territories as an educational tool. It has then been published in the UK, Australia, and in New Zealand by Walker Books, in France as "Deuze Heures Avant"(Gallimard),in Germany as "Der Himmel uber Jerusalem" (Fischer Verlag) as well as in Spain (Noguer), Turkey (Remzi Kitabevi), Greece (Psichogios), Korea (JoongAng) and China (Jieli publishing house). It is studied in universities in UK and Canada as an example of human rights literature.http://yorkpen.wordpress.com/2013/05/25/863/see: THE UNIVERSITY OF WESTERN ONTARIO. London. Canada. Department of English and Women's Studies. Testimony, Youth and Human Rights. Fall 2014
''To Die in Jerusalem'' is a 2007 HBO documentary film about Ayat al-Akhras and her 17-year-old Israeli victim, Rachel Levy.  The film documents the efforts of Rachel's mother Avigail Levy to meet with Um Samir al-Akhras, the mother of al-Akhras.
* Suicide bomber
* Female suicide bomber
* Al-Aqsa Intifada
*Andalib Suleiman
*
'''Shirwa Ahmed''' was a 26-year-old Somali-American who is the second known American suicide bomber, surpassing Andrew Kehoe.
Ahmed immigrated to the United States as a child, resided in Minneapolis, Minnesota and entered the Roosevelt High School in September 1996. and went on to attend community college before dropping out and worked odd jobs. In 2004, Ahmed began associating with a new group of friends perceived as having been religious; he was "radicalized in his hometown in Minnesota" according to Robert Mueller, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He was one of twenty Somali-American men who departed the Minneapolis area for Somalia, a trend which has been the focus of one of the larger domestic terrorism investigations since September 11, 2001. Motivated by a mixture of politics and religion, he joined Al-Shabaab (militant group)|Al-Shabaab, a militant Somali group. Then, on October 29, 2008, - or the 28th - he drove a car loaded with explosives into a government compound in Puntland in the northern region of the country. The FBI investigated the incident and returned Ahmed's remains to Minneapolis that November.
'''Abdallah Saleh Ali Al Ajmi''' (2 August 1978 - 23 March 2008) was a Kuwaiti citizen, who was held in extrajudicial detention in the United States Guantanamo Bay detainment camps, in Cuba. His Guantanamo Internment Serial Number was 220. Joint Task Force Guantanamo counter-terrorism analysts reports indicated that he was born on 2 August 1978, in Almadi, Kuwait|Almadi, Kuwait.
On 2 September 2003, attorneys Thomas Wilner, Neil H. Koslowe, Kristine A. Huskey, and Heather Lamberg Kafele filed a Petition for writ of Certiorari on behalf of Al Ajmi and eleven other Guantanamo detainees., ''Findlaw'', 2 September 2003
In March or April 2008, Al Ajmi conducted a suicide attack in Iraq.
A Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for his tribunal. The memo accused him of the following:
A writ of habeas corpus, Abdullah Saleh Ali Al Ajmi v. United States of America, was submitted on Abdullah Saleh Ali Al Ajmi's behalf.
In response, on 15 September 2004, the Department of Defense released 12 pages of unclassified documents related to his Combatant Status Review Tribunal.
Al Ajmi's "enemy combatant" status was confirmed by Tribunal panel 2 on 2 August 2004 - making his own of the first cases to be confirmed.
Al Ajmi's Personal Representative's Detainee election form stated that they met for twenty minutes, and recorded in its notes section:
According to the study entitled, No-hearing hearings, Al Ajmi was the first captive to have his Tribunal convened. His Tribunal was convened on 2 August 2004.
The study notes:  
Detainees whose Combatant Status Review Tribunal labeled them "enemy combatants" were scheduled for annual Administrative Review Board hearings.  These hearings were designed to assess the threat a detainee might pose if released or transferred, and whether there were other factors that warranted his continued detention.
A Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for 
Abdallah Salih Ali Al Ajmi's
Administrative Review Board, 
on 4 February 2005.
The memo listed eleven "primary factors favor[ing] continued detention".
''The following primary factors favor continued detention''
''The following primary factors favor release or transfer''
Al Ajmi's Board hearing convened on 4 February 2005.
In early September 2007 the Department of Defense released two heavily redacted memos, from his Board, to Gordon R. England, the Designated Civilian Official.
 The Board's recommendation was unanimous. The Board's recommendation was redacted. England authorized his transfer on 20 May 2005.
Al Ajmi was repatriated to Kuwait and taken into Kuwaiti custody on 3 November 2005., ''BBC'', 3 November 2005 Al Ajmi was freed, on bail, while he awaited trial., ''Kuwait Times'', 23 July 2006 The five men trial began in March 2006, and were acquitted on 22 July 2006.. ''Independent Online (South Africa)'', 22 May 2006 ''The Washington Post'' reported that the two main charges were that the detainees had helped fund Al Wafa, an Afghan charity with ties to Al Qaeda, and that they had fought alongside the Taliban., ''Washington Post'', 21 May 2006 Further, the prosecution argued that the detainees actions had endangered Kuwait's political standing and its relations with friendly nations.
The detainees' defense had argued that testimony secured in Guantanamo could not be used in Kuwaiti courts, because the detainees and interrogators had not signed them. Furthermore, they had argued that the allegations the USA had directed at them were not violations of Kuwaiti law.
In an October 2011 article about the torture of other former captives from Kuwait, ''CNN'''s Jenifer Fenton reported that people who knew him ''"described him as unstable when he returned from Guantanamo."''
On 1 May 2008, Al Ajmi's cousin told Al Arabiya television that Al Ajmi had carried out a suicide bombing in Mosul, Iraq. On 2 May 2008, ''The International Herald Tribune'' reported that the three most recent suicide bombings in Mosul occurred on 26 April 2008, and killed seven people.  According to the report,  Al Ajmi's cousin said that Al Ajmi had disappeared "two weeks ago". However, a 2009 ''The Washington Post'' article reported that Al Ajmi killed himself in a suicide bombing on 23 March 2008, which killed 13 Iraqi policemen. A ''CNN'' report from October 2011 said the attack ''"...left six people dead, including two police officers."''.
The Defense Intelligence Agency asserted Abdallah Salih al-Ajmi had "returned to terrorism".
The DIA reported: 
*Adel Zamel Abdul-Mohsen
*Saad Madhi al-Azmi
*  Andy Worthington
'''Abdullah Hassan al-Asiri''' () (1986 – August 27, 2009) was a Saudi Arabian member of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.
 His name is an ascription to the 'Asir Province of Saudi Arabia.  He died in August 2009 while attempting to assassinate Saudi Arabia's Deputy Minister of the Interior, Muhammad bin Nayef, in a suicide bombing.
According to the ''Saudi Gazette'' Abdullah was reportedly recruited into al Qaeda by his older brother Ibrahim al-Asiri and the two brothers reportedly traveled to Yemen in 2007.
He rose to notability when he was named on a Saudi list of most wanted terrorist suspects on February 3, 2009, and then on August 27, 2009, for attempting to assassinate Saudi deputy minister of Interior, Muhammad bin Nayef, whom he only slightly injured in a suicide bombing.
Asiri spoke to Mohammed bin Nayef a few days prior to the bombing and expressed his desire to turn himself in as part of the country's terrorist rehabilitation program, in the Arab News from Monday August 31, 2009 (10 Ramadan 1430) and they agreed to meet.
On August 27, 2009, Asiri waited in line at Mohammed bin Nayef's Jeddah home as "well-wisher," a tradition in the kingdom during Ramadan. He exploded a suicide bomb (perhaps with a cell phone), killing himself, but only lightly injuring bin Nayef (who was protected from the full force of the blast by Asiri's body).
Assisted by his older brother, Ibrahim al-Asiri, he had hidden a pound (0.5 kg) of PETN plastic explosives in his rectum and anal canal, which security experts described as a novel technique.
According to ''Al Arabiya'', this was the first assassination attempt against a royal family member since 2003, when Saudi Arabia faced a sharp uptick in al-Qaeda linked attacks.  The ''Saudi Gazette'' reported on October 22, 2009, that a Yemeni named Rayed Abdullah Salem Al Harbi assisted Asiri in preparing for his suicide mission.
*], accessed January 4, 2010]
'''Humam Khalil Abu-Mulal al-Balawi''' (25 December 1977 - 30 December 2009) was a Jordanian doctor and a triple agent suicide bomber loyal to Islamist extremists who carried out the Camp Chapman attack, a suicide attack against a CIA base near Khost, Afghanistan on 30 December 2009.
An Afghan security official gave al-Balawi's  name as Hamman Khalil Abu Mallal al-Balawi. The Arab newspaper ''The National'' referred to him as Homam Khaleel Mohammad Abu Mallal.
Al-Balawi was born in Kuwait on 25 December 1977. He grew up in a middle-class family of nine other children, including an identical twin brother, and lived in Kuwait until Invasion of Kuwait|Iraq's 1990 invasion of the country, when the family moved to Jordan. He graduated with honors from an Amman high school.
Al-Balawi studied medicine for six years in Turkey at Istanbul University and graduated in 2002. He also received medical training at the University of Jordan Hospital and at the Islamic hospital run by Jordan's Muslim Brotherhood#Jordan|Islamic Brotherhood in Amman. He was married to Dafinah Bairak (Defne Bayrak), a Turkish journalist and translator, with whom he had two children. They lived in the lower-income Amman suburb of Jabal Nuzhah.
Al-Balawi had a history of supporting violent Islamist causes. It is not clear whether this information was shared with other intelligence organizations. According to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors extremist websites, he was a well-known contributor to al-Hesbah, an online forum run by Islamist extremists. He also ran his own Islamist blog.
Al-Balawi was arrested by the Jordanian security service in late 2007 and was believed to have been transformed into a double agent loyal to the U.S. and to Jordan.
According to intelligence officials, al-Balawi had been invited to FOB Chapman after claiming to have information related to senior al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri. He was not closely searched because of his perceived value as someone who could infiltrate the ranks of senior al-Qaeda leaders. The CIA had come to trust the informant, and the Jordanian spy agency vouched for him, according to officials.
According to a Jordanian report, al-Balawi was an "informant, who offered dangerous and important information which the authorities said they had to take seriously", but not recruited by the CIA or Jordanian intelligence. He was "only a trusted source who went onto the base without inspection" the official said.
Al-Balawi appeared in a video released after his death and was shown saying that the attack was carried out in revenge for the 2009 killing of the Pakistani Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud.
In his last statement issued by the Al Qaeda's media wing As-Sahab, he revealed that Jordanian intelligence was co-operating with the CIA to kill or capture senior Al-Qaeda and other militant group leaders. He further claimed that the Jordanian Intelligence Directorate assisted the CIA in killing Imad Mughniyah, a senior Hizbullah militant killed in Lebanon, and Abdullah Azzam, senior Afghan jihad leader, as well as assisting them to eliminate Abu Musab Zarqawi, who was the head of al-Qaeda in Iraq.
After Al-Balawi's death, his wife Defne Bayrak was interrogated for almost five hours by Istanbul Security Directorate (Turkish police). She also complained to The  Association of Human Rights and Solidarity of Oppressed People in Turkey about being constantly bothered by reporters.
Her main point during interviews was that al-Balawi never really worked for CIA or Jordanian intelligence, wasn't their agent, and only used them by pretending to work for them. In the interviews al-Balawi comes out as someone who was obsessed about Jihad and felt guilty for not doing anything despite constantly writing on the subject. He was very affected by the occupation of "Islamic lands" by United States. She said that he had wanted to go to the conflict areas before but was unable because Jordanian intelligence strictly controls access of suspicious people to these areas. According to her he wasn't tortured during the 3 day arrest and was given a Quran to read but was prohibited from reading it out loud. She says it is probable that it was during interrogation that he convinced the intelligence agencies and gained easy exit to Pakistan. She denies knowing anything about his connection to intelligence services but admits concealing from his parents that he was in Pakistan and not in Turkey.  She also expressed great pride in her husband's suicide attack.
*Jihobbyist
* - Humam Khalil Abu-Mulal al-Balawi's posthumous video statement
*Book review: 
* 
* 
'''Khalid Mohammad bin Muslim Al-Arawi Al-Juhani''' (, also known as '''Mu'awiyah al-Madani''') was a Saudi member of al-Qaeda who appeared cradling a rifle, in a 2002 videotape in which he promised a "martyrdom" attack. In 2003, the Saudi government identified al-Juhani as one of twelve dead perpetrators of the Riyadh compound bombings based on DNA found at the scene.
Al-Juhani was once a bodyguard for Osama Bin Laden.http://www.rulit.net/books/the-black-banners-read-249656-92.html He fled Afghanistan, along with Saleh al-Oufi, in late 2001 following the American invasion.Stevens, Robert. Associated Press, "Confusion reigns in the Kingdom", July 2, 2004
On January 14, 2002, a series of five videocassetes were recovered from the rubble of the destroyed home of Mohammad Atef outside of Kabul, Afghanistan. The tapes showed Abderraouf Jdey, Ramzi bin al-Shibh, Muhammad Sa'id Ali Hasan, Abdul Rahim Jenko|Abd Al-Rahim, and al-Juhani vowing to die as martyrs.  It was the first time authorities had reason to suspect him of any wrongdoing.CBC, , January 26, 2002 NBC News said the videos had been recorded after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
After the tape was discovered, and the Saudi newspaper Al Watan (Saudi Arabia)|Al-Watan contacted
his family members, they said he spent three years fighting in Afghanistan from the time he was 18 years old, and another three years fighting in Chechnya. They believed he had been left mentally ill "as a result of pressure he faced during the [Afghan] war".
He fled Afghanistan during the American invasion, and moved to Yemen, before moving to Riyadh in 2003.Brachman, Jarret. "Global Jihadism", p. 142 In Saudi Arabia, Karim el-Mejjati agreed to allow al-Juhani to live with his family. He tried to find a wife for al-Juhani, who was not supposed to be involved in any more fighting.Al-Sharq Al-Awsat, , June 17, 2005 
 created by the FBI to show how Juhani may try to disguise himself.
On March 23, 2003, el-Mejjati's wife and 10-year-old son Ilyass left the city to try to reach an ophthalmologist. They had been originally intended to travel with  al-Juhani, which caught the attention of the Mabahith secret police. However, al-Juhani argued he wasn't feeling well and asked a brother and his wife to instead accompany el-Mejjati and her son. The group was nonetheless arrested by authorities who hoped that al-Juhani was present.La Gazette du Maroc, , May 30, 2005 
Al-Juhani was identified as one of the twelve suicide bombers in the May 2003 suicide bombing attacks in Riyadh.
#REDIRECT Brussels ISIL terror cell#Paris assailants
#REDIRECT November 2015 Paris attacks#Perpetrators
#REDIRECT 2014 Hotel Amalo attack
